Will of Jane Allen - 18 Apr 1840

In the name of God Amen I Jane Allen of the
County of Orange in the State of North Carolina
being Sick in Body but of Sound and Desposing Mind
and Memory. Do make and publish this my Last
Will and Testament this 18th day of April the year
of Our Lord One thousand Eight Hundred and fourty.
In the first place I direct that all my Just
Depts be paid.

I will and bequeath unto my Son John Allen in cash
one Hundred and fifty Dollars. and one Soral filly,
about two years old and one Dimity Stand of curtains
and three Bed quilts. and one cotton Toilet [Doily? Tarlet?] for his Desk,

I will and bequeath unto my Daughter Fanny Allen
one Negro woman named Mary and one Bed and furniture
and one Bauro [Bureau] that I Bought of John Daniel, and one
Sett of Silver tea Spoons, and three Stands of curtains

My Desire is that My Daughter Fanny have one plain
white stand and then Fanny and Mary Jane Devide
four stands of curtains between them that I
have not perticular Named and four quilts

I will and bequeath unto my Daughter Mary Jane
Allen one Negro girl Named Martha Ann. and one
Bed and furniture and one Beauro [Bureau] and one striped
clouded stand of curtains with and interst in the above
Named four stands to be Divided between My two
Daughters. and four quilts.

I will and bequeath unto my son Alexandrice Allen
three Hundred and fifty Dollars in cash and one
Large Trunk. and three quilts and two white
counterpanes. and my insterst[interest] in Black Jerry [Jenny?] to go to Alexandrice

My will and Desire is that after Each child has got
the portion of Bed cloths perticular Named to them
that the Balance of my Bed clothing and all My other
Clothing be Equally Devided between My Daughters Fanny
and Mary Jane.

[page 2]
My will and Desire is the Balance of my household
property with all my other property not named in my will
be Sold at public Sale. and be Equaly Devided between my
four children Namely John Fanny Mary Jane and Alexandire
Each to Share and Share alike.

Lastly I Nominate My Trusty Brother John Scotte My Executor
to this my Last Will and Testament. Signed Sealed and
Published. the day and Date first above writen.
Witnesses                            her
James White      }              Jane (X) Allen (Seal)
Thomas Lashley   }  Jurat            mark
                          Exr. qualified

[Will Book Volume F, page 54]
In the name of God Amen I Jane Allen of the County
of Orange in the State of North Carolina being Sick in body
but of Sound and disposing Mind and Memory Do make
and publish this my Last Will and Testament this 18th day of April
the year of Our Lord One thousand Eight Hundred and forty

In the first place I direct that all my Just Depts be paid.

[Will Book Volume F, page 55]
I will and bequeath unto my Son John Allen in Cash
one Hundred and fifty Dollars and one Sorrel filly about
two years old and one Dimity Stand of Curtains and three
Bed quilts and one Cotton Tarlet for his Desk ~~~

I will and bequeath unto my Daughter Fanny Allen one
Negro Woman Named Mary and one Bed and furniture and one
Bureau that I bought of John Daniel and one Sett of Silver tea
Spoons and three Stands of Curtains ~~ My desire is that My Daughter
Fanny have one plain White Stand and then Fanny and Mary
Jane Devide four Stands of Curtains between them that I have
not particular Named and four quilts ~~~

I will and bequeath unto my Daughter Mary Jane Allen one
Negro Girl named Martha Ann and one Bed and furniture and
one Bureau and one Striped Clouded Stand of curtains with
and Interest in the above named four stands to be Divided
between my two Daughters and four quilts

I Will and bequeath unto my ["Daughter" x-out] Son Alexandrice Allen three
Hundred and fifty Dollars in Cash and one Large Trunk and three
quilts and two White Counterpanes and my Interest in Black Jerry [Jenny?]
to go to Alexandrice ~~ My Will and desire is that after each Child
has got the portion of Bed Cloths particular named to them
that the Balance of my bed clothing and all my other Clothing
be Equally Divided between my Daughters Fanny and Mary Jane

My will and Desire is the Balance of my Household property
with all my other property not named in my Will be Sold at public
Sale and be Equally Divided between My four Children namely John
Fanny Mary Jane and Alexandric Each to Share and Share alike

Lastly I Nominate My Trusty Brother John Scott My Executor
to this my Last Will and Testament Signed Sealed and Published
the day and Date first above Written
    Witnesses                              her
    James White                       Jane (X) Allen (Seal)
    Thomas Lashley                         mark

                        Orange County August Term 1840
The Execution of the foregoing last Will and Testament of
Jane Allen decd. Was duly proved in Open Court by the Oaths of
James Whites and Thomas Lashley the subscribing Witnesses thereto and
ordered to be recorded At the same time John Scott the Executor therein named
qualified Accordingly

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume F, pages 54-55
Recorded Aug 1840

Alexandrice or Alexandrico?

Estate Papers comprise five pages and are found in a folder labeled "Allen, Jane (1840)".  Inventory and list of sale accounts.
  

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

