Will of Joseph Allison - 13 Aug 1857

                1st
                            Cedar Grove Orange Cty., N.C.
                                            August 13th 1857 ---
I Joseph Allison of said County and State
do make and ordain the following to be my
last will and testament in manner and form
as follows 1st I will that my Executors pay
all the just debts that I may owe at my death
out of the money that comes into their hands
and that they have tombstones of Grannite with
proper inscription (such as is over my Dece[a]sed
wifess grave) put up to my grave

2nd I give and bequeath to my Executors herein after
to be named to them their Executors Administrators
& assigns forever one negro Girl known By the name
of Booker (said girl now loaned to my dau[g]hter
Alvira B. Taylor) in trust, nevertheless, for the use
and benefit of dau[g]hter Alvira B. Taylor my
said Executors are to hold her and all her fut-
-ure increase free from the debts of her said
husband David A. Taylor they may hire her
or increase out and pay over said hire to my
said daughter Alvira B. or they may let her
have the use of said girl and increase if
they think best for her and at the death
of my said daughter said girl and her
increase to be sold and the proceeds to be
equally divided amongst the children of my

[page 2, marked "2nd"]
said daughter but if any of said children
should be dead and leaving children then
their children or child to take the parents
part

3rd I give and bequeath to my Executors herein
after named to them their Executors administrators
and assigns for ever the following negroes Ma
-riah and her three children Adeline Sandy &
Julia Francis and their future increase forever
in trust nevertheless for the use and benefit
of my daughter Eleanor Jane Pettigrew during
her natural life but not to be subject
to the debts of her said husband Elkins Pettigrew
in any way whatever said executors as Trus-
-tees may hire out said negroes for her bene-
-fit or if they think proper and best for
her they may let her have the use of said
negroes and at her death said negroes to be equally
divided amongst all the children of my said
daughter Eleanor Jane and if any of her children
should die before their mother leaving a
child or children the said child or children
to take their parents share that they would
be entitled to if living

4th I give and bequeath to my executors herein after
named to them their executors administrators
and assigns forever the following negroes Sarah
and her two children Henry & Sidney and their
future increase forever in trust nevertheless

[page 3]
for the use and benefit of my daughter Martha L. McM-
-enemy during her natural life but not to be subject
to the debts of her said husband Robeson McMenemy
in any way whatever said executors as trustees may
hire out said negroes for the benefit of my said
daughter Martha L. or if they think best for her
they may let her have the use of said negroes
and at her death said negroes to be equally divided
amongst all the children of my said daughter Martha L.
and if any of her children should die before their mother
leaving a child or children the said child or children
to take the parents part

5th I give and bequeath to my executors hereinafter named
to them their Executors Administrators and assigns
forever the tract of land that I bought of John D.
Gray Containing one hundred and three and a half
acres on the waters of Enoe also one hundred acres
adjoining it on the East side which I bought at
Sheriff sale in trust nevertheless for the use and
benefit of my son Elbridge A. Allison said execu-
-tors as Trustees are to manage said plantation
as they may think best for the benefit of my
said Son Elbridge A. and family during his
natural life and at his death my will is that
said plantation shall be equally divided amongst
his children but if any of them should be dead
leaving a child or children such child or children

[page marked "4th"]
shall take the part their deceased parents would be
entitled to if living

6th I give and bequeath to my son Wm. W. Allison the
following negroes Cyrus Sarah and her child Dallas
and all their future increase to him and his heirs
forever to be valued as herein after provided for

7th I give and bequeath to my son Joseph B. Allison my
boy Sandy to him and his heirs forever to be valued
as hereinafter provided for

8th I give and bequeath to my son John J. Allison my boy
Samuel to him & his heirs forever to be valued as herein
after provided for

9th I give and bequeath to my son Giles J. Allison my boy
Arthur Lea to him & his heirs forever to be valued as
herein after provided for

10th I give and bequeath to my son Julius F. Allison my boy
Henry to him & his heirs forever to be valued as herein
after provided for

11th It is my will & wish that five good disinterested men
be Chosen by the Legatees to this will or a majority
of them may choose them to value the following
property willed above in this will The Land willed
to my executors for the benefit of my son Elbridge
A. Allison and the slaves that are willed to my sons
Wm. W. Allison Joseph B. Allison & John J. Allison Giles J.
Allison Julius F. Allison my will & wish is that
they value both land and negroes at a fare[sic] mode-
-rate valuation not to be governed by prices of Speculat-
-ors but a fare moderate valuation among farmers

[page 5]
and it is my will that three hundred dollars be dedu-
-cted from the valuation of the land & the same
amount three hundred dollars deducted from
each of the lots of negroes willed to be valued
the balance of the valuation to be accounted for
in distribution of my estate by a clause herein
after to be made

12th I give and bequeath my old woman Lucy to my
two sons Wm P. And John J. Allison I also give
them one hundred dollars out of my estate to keep
her requesting them to take good care of her as
long as she lives as she has been a good servant
to me

13th I will my undived[?] interest in the Tract of land
whereon Mrs. Rebecca Thompson now resides to be
sold by my executors herein after appointed on
a credit of 12 months with good security

14th I will all my Books to be equally divided amongst
my nine living children and my grand son Joseph
C. Davis the books to be divided into ten equal
lots by two men and then my children draw for
those lots if any of the Legatees should not be present
the Executors shall draw for them

15th I give and bequeath to my son Wm. W. Allison my suit
of uniform hat, coat, sword, epauletts, sash & spurs

16th I give and bequeath to my son Elbridge A. Allison
my shot gun

[page 6]
17th I give and bequeath to my son John J. Allison
my apron and sash that he belongs to the Blue
Masonic Lodge also my Masons heart in a frame

18th I give and bequeath to my son Giles J. Allison
my apron & sash or Regalia for the Royal Arch.
Chapter of Free Masons

19th I give and bequeath to my son Julius F. Allison
my silver watch requesting him to keep it or
not let it go out of the family

20th I give and bequeath to my daughter Alvira B. Taylor
my old stand of drawers and I give and bequeath
to my daughter Eleanor Jane Pettigrew my large
Walnut table and my large trunk I give and
bequeath to my daughter Martha L. McMenamy my
less[?] walnut table & my trunk that used to ["used" x-out]
["to" x-out] belong to my daughter Euphrasia P. Davis I also
give to my daughter Alvira B. Taylor six chairs that
she now has in her possession which I loaned to her

21st I give and bequeath to my son John J. Allison one bed
stead and one candlestand which I loaned to him

22nd I give to William W. Allison my large candlestand and
blue desk

23rd I give and bequeath to my grand son Joseph C. Davis son
of my daughter Euphrasia P. Davis, deced, five hundred
dollars to be paid out of my estate as soon as
my executors can conveniently get the money

24th it is my will and desire that after my just debts and
funeral expenses and the Legacies in this will are paid
that all the ballance of my estate arising from the

[page 7]
value of lands that is willed to be valued or
sold also the value of negroes that is willed to
be valued valuation and all the money on hand
and all the bonds or notes on hand to be collected
that are or may be due me at my death or for
property here in after willed to be sold and all
money due my estate in any way whatever to
be equally divided among my nine living children
Alvira B. Taylor Wm. W. Allison Joseph B. Allison Elb-
-ridge A. Allison John J. Allison Eleanor Jane Pettigrew
Martha L. McMenemy Giles J. Allison Julius F. Allison
My executors as trustees are to keep the shares of
my three daughters in their hands in the same way
and under the same restrictions as is directed in
the foregoing clauses willing the negroes to my said
daughters that is I will that they receive each daughters share
as directed in trust nevertheless for the use and benefit
of said daughters the money to be put at interest with
security and the interest to be paid an[n]ually to said
daughters and if my said executors as Trustees shall
think that my said daughters needs more than the interest
and my daughters wish it they may pay them part
of the principle[sic] as they may think is right and
take their receipt for all they pay them during their
natural life and at their deaths whatever remains
of said principal money to be equally divided of
each one share amongst the children of said daughter
but if any of the children of said daughters should
be dead leaving a child or children they are to

[page 8]
have the share that said parent of such children
would get were they living

25th I will and desire that the share of E. A. Allison in
my estate be taken and held by my executors as trustees
for his benefit the money to be put at interest by
said trustees a[?] interest to go be paid annually to said E. A.
Allison and if said trustees thinks he actually needs
it and ought to have it they may pay him a little
more

26th I give and bequeath to my son John J. Allison fifteen acres
of land off of the Store house lot said land to be
taken off of the North end run off by an East and West
line

27th I will my Storehouse lot or the part of it not willed, to be
divided between my two sons J. J. And Wm. W. Allison Wm
W. Allison to have the South side of the Road that crosses
between the Store house and blacksmith shop and
John J. Allison the North side said lots of land
to be valued as heretofore provided for valuing land
and negroes each to pay or settle to my estate
said valuation as allotted to them

28th It is my will that my executors sell all my property
not willed of every description on a credit of 12
months Taking bond with good security for the
same and apply the proceeds of said sale as directed
in a foregoing Clause of this will

29th It is my will that no account shall be raised against
any of my children in favor of my estate for

[page 9]
anything they may have got from me or any time
heretofore except what is mentioned in this will
and they shall be governed by this will entirely
in setting my estate so that there shall be no controver=
-sy amongst them I have tried to do equal justice
to all you have all been good children and kind to
me and I hope you will be kind and affectionate
one to another but all notes or bonds given to
me by my children are to be paid or settled by
them to my estate the same as other people

30th It is my will that if either of my daughters should be
without a home and desire one that the trustees appointed
in this will are hereby authorized to appropriate any funds
in their hands that may be necessary to secure such home
for such daughter during their life and at their death to
go to their children or heirs as directed for ["the" x-out] money
in a foregoing clause of this will

31st I give and bequeath to my grand son
Joseph C. Davis three hundred dollars in addi-
-tion to the five hundred given to him in
a forgoing clause of this will to be paid
as directed in that clause

32nd It is my will that the boy Sandy willed to my son
Joseph B. Allison shall not be removed out of
the neighborhood if he continue abroad said
boy shall be hired or sold to some good man
in this neighborhood it is also my will and
desire that all my other negroes willed in this
will shall be kept by those they are willed to

[page 10]
except they behave very much amiss
and that they shall be treated very much
as I have done heretofore

33d I give and bequeath to my son John J. Allison
my silver headed walking cane which was a
present to me

34th I hereby nominate and appoint my two sons
Wm. W. Allison and John J. Allison Executors and
Trustees to this my last will and testament
and if said trustees should die or move away
or otherwise refuse to act the County Court
of Orange to appoint some suitable persons
to act in their stead
                Given under my hand & seal
         this the day & year first above written
Signed & sealed in the presence
of us by the Testator and in
presence of each other              J Allison (seal)
        Robert Reding
        Hw Woods

Whereas I Joseph Allison have made my
last will and testament bearing date on
the 18th day of August A.D. 1857 and have
thereby made sundry devices and bequests
according to the then existing circumstances
of my state but which circumstances

[page 11]
having now materially changed I do by this my
writing which I hereby declare to be a codicil to
my said will to be taken and construed as a
part of my last will and testament and I
hereby revoke and declare null and void
article 9th of the above will in which I had
willed my boy Arthur Lea to my son Giles J.
Allison and his heirs and in lieu thereof
I give and bequeath to my executors as hereto
fore appointed to them their executors administrators
and assigns forever Martha and her child Susan
and their future increase in trust nevertheless
for the use and benefit of my own son Giles
J. Allison during his natural life but not
to be subject to the debts of my said son
Giles J. in any way whatever said executors
as trustees may hire out said negroes for
the benefit of my said son or if they
think best for him they may let him
have the use of said negroes and at his
death said negroes to be equally divided among
[??] all the children of my said son Giles J.
and if any of the children of my said son
Giles J. should die before their father leaving
a child or children said child or children
to take the parents part the above named
negroes Martha and her child Susan and

[page 12]
and their increase willed to my executors in
trust for the benefit of my son Giles J.
Allison shall be valued by the men to be
chosen to Value the property in the foregoing
and the same deduction of three hundred dollars
shall be made that is directed to my other
sons

Item I will and desire the share of my son
Giles J. Allison in my estate be taken and
held by executors as trustees for his
benefit the money to be put at interest
by said trustees interest to be paid
annually to Giles J. and if said trustees
think he actually needs it and ought
to have it they may pay him a little
more at their discretion.  And at the Death
of my son Giles J Allison his Share to be equally divided
among all his Children Surviving him

Item My will asto my boy Arthur Lea is
that he shall be valued after my death
by the men chosen as directed in the 11th
article (of my last will and testament) to
value the land and negroes willed and he
shall choose his home among my children
and it is my will that my executors let
him go to whoever of them he chooses at one hundred
dollars less than the valuation provided the
master he chooses makes the payment for
him

Item My will asto my boy Frank is

[page 13]
that he shall be valued after my death by the
men chosen as directed in the 11th Art. of
the foregoing will to Value land and negroes
willed and he shall choose his home among
my children and it is my will that my
executors let him go to whoever he chooses
among them at one hundred dollars less than the valua-
tion provided the master he chooses makes
the payment for him ["and" x-out] I farther
will and direct that the money arrising
from the sale of the two boys Arthur Lea
and Frank as above directed shall return into
and make a part of the surplus of my estate
to be disposed of by my executors as directed
in the 24th article of my said will and testam-
-ent of which this codicil is hereby declared
to be a part

    In testimony whereof I hereunto set my
hand and seal the 30th day of July Anno
Domini 1858

    Signed sealed published and
declared by the said Joseph Allison to be
a Codicil or part of his last Will and
Testament in presence of us who at his request and
in his presence and the presence of each other do subscribe
our names as witness is thereto
    Robert Reding Jurat
    Hw. Woods   Jurat

[Will Book Volume G, page 360]
         Cedar Grove Orange County N.Carolina
                             August 13th 1857
I Joseph Allison of said County and State do make
and ordain the following to be my last Will and
Testament in manner and form as follows 1st I will
that my Executors pay all the just debts that I may owe
at my death out of the money that comes into their hands
and that they have tombstones of granite with proper
inscription such as is over my Decd. wife's grave put up to
my grave. 2nd I give and bequeath to my Executors herein
after to be named to them their Executors Administrators &
assigns forever one negro girl known By the name of Booker
Said girl now loaned to my daughter Alvira B. Taylor
in trust nevertheless for the use and benefit of daughter Alvira
B. Taylor, my said Executors are to hold her and all her
future increase free from the debts of her said husband David
A. Taylor they may hire her or increase out and pay over
said hire to my said Daughter Alvira B. or they may let
her have the use of said girl and increase if they think
best for her and at the death of my said daughter said
girl and her increase to be sold & the proceeds to be
equally divided amongst the children of my said daughter
but if any of Said children should be dead and leaving
children then their children or child to take the parents part

3rd I give and bequeath to my Executors hereinafter named
to them their Executors administrators and assigns forever
the following negroes Mariah and her three children Adeline
Sandy & Julia Francis and their future increase forever
in trust nevertheless for the use and benefit of my daughter
Eleanor Jane Pettigrew during her natural life but not to
be subject to the debts of her said husband Elkins Pettigrew
in any way whatever said Executors as trustees may hire
out Said negroes for her benefit or if they think proper
and best for her they may let her have the use of Said
negroes and at her death said negroes to be equally
divided amongst all the children of my Said daughter
Eleanor Jane and if any of her children Should die
before their Mother leaving a child or children the

[Will Book Volume G, page 361]
Said child or children to take their parents share
that they would be entitled to if living

4th I give and bequeath to my Executors hereinafter
named to them their Executors administrators and assigns
forever the following negroes Sarah and her two children
Henry & Sidney and their future increase forever in trust
nevertheless for the use and benefit of my daughter Martha
L. McMiniway[McMenemy] during her natural life but not to be Subject
to the debts of her said husband Robeson McMiniway[McMenemy] in any way
whatever said Executors as trustees may hire out said negroes
for the benefit of my said daughter Martha L. or if they think
best for her they may let her have the use of said negroes and
at her death said negroes to be equally divided amongst all
the children of my said daughter Martha L. and if any of
her children Should die before their mother leaving a child or
children the Said child or children to take the parents part

5th I give and bequeath to my Executors hereinafter named
to them their Executors administrators and assigns for-
ever the tract of land that I bought of John D. Gray contain-
ing one hundred and three and a half acres on the waters
of Eno also one hundred acres adjoining it on the east side
which I bought at Sheriffs sale in trust nevertheless for the use
and benefit of my son Elbridge A Allison said Executors
as trustees are to manage said plantation as they may
think best for the benefit of my Said Son Elbridge A and
family during his natural life and at his death my
will is that said plantation shall be equally divided
amongst his children but if any of them should be
dead leaving a child or children Such child or children
shall take the part their deceased parents would be entitled [to]
if living

6th I give and bequeath to my son Wm. W. Allison the following
negroes Cyrus Sarah and her child Dallas and all their
future increase to him and his heirs forever to be
valued as herein after provided for

7th I give and bequeath to my son Joseph B Allison my
boy Sandy to him and his heirs forever to be valued
as hereinafter provided for

[Will Book Volume G, page 362]
8th I give and bequeath to my son John J Allison my
boy Samuel to him & his heirs forever to be valued as
herein after provided for

9th I give and bequeath to my Son Giles J Allison my boy
Arthur Lee to him & his heirs forever to be valued as herein
after provided for

10th I give and bequeath to my son Julius F. Allison my
boy Henry to him & his heirs forever to be valued as herein
after provided for

11th It is my will & wish that five good disinterested men
be chosen by the Legatees to this will or a majority of them
may choose them to value the following property willed
above in this will The land willed to my Executors for the
benefit of my Son Elbridge A Allison and the Slaves
that are willed to my Sons Wm. W. Allison Joseph B. Allison
& John J Allison Giles J. Allison Julius F. Allison
my will & wish is that they value both land and negroes
at a fare[sic] moderate valuation not to be governed by prices
of Speculators but a fare moderate valuation among
farmers and it is my will that three hundred dollars be
deducted from the Valuation of the land & the Same amount
three hundred dollars deducted from each of the lots of negroes
willed to be valued the ballance of the valuation to be accounted
for in distribution of my estate by a clause herein after
to be made

12th I give and bequeath my old woman Lucy to my two sons
Wm. W. and John J. Allison I also give them one
one[sic] hundred dollars out of my estate to keep her requesting
them to take good care of her as long as she lives as she
has been a good servant to me

13th I will my undivided interest in the tract of land whereon
Mrs. Rebecca Thompson now resides to be Sold my my
Executors hereinafter appointed on a credit of twelve
months with good Security

14th I will all my Books to be equally divided amongst
my nine living children and my grandson Joseph
C Davis the books to be divided into ten equal
lots [x-out] by two men and then my children draw

[Will Book Volume G, page 363]
for those lots if any of the Legatees Should not be
present the Executors shall draw for them

15th I give and bequeath to my Son Wm. W. Allison my Suit
of uniform hat Coat Sword Epauletts Sash & Spurs

16th I give and bequeath to my son Elbridge A. Allison my shot
gun

17th I give and bequeath to my Son John J Allison my apron
and Sash that he belongs to the Blue Masonic Lodge also my Masonic heart in
a frame

18th I give and bequeath to my Son Giles J. Allison my apron
& sash or Regalia for the Royal Arch. Chapter of Free Masons

19th I give and bequeath to my son Julius F. Allison my silver
watch requesting him to keep it or not let it go out of the family

20th I give and bequeath to my daughter Alvira B. Taylor my
old stand of drawers and I give and bequeath to my dau-
ghter Eleanor Jane Pettigrew my large Walnut table and my
large trunk I give and bequeath to my daughter Martha L.
McMiniway[McMenamy] my less[?] walnut table & my trunk that used to
belong to my daughter Euphrasia P. Davis I also give to my
daughter Alvira B. Taylor Six chairs that she now has in
her possession which I loaned to her

21st I give & bequeath to my son John J. Allison one bed
stead and one candlestand which I loaned to him

22nd I give to Wm. W. Allison my large candlestand and
blue desk

23rd I give and bequeath to my grand son Joseph C. Davis son of
my daughter Euphrasia P. Davis decd. five hundred dollars
to be paid out of my estate as soon as my Executors can con=
veniently get the money

24th It is my will and desire that after my just debts and
funeral expenses and the Legatees[Legacies] in this will are paid
that all the ballance of my estate arising from the value of
lands that is willed to be valued or sold also the value of
negroes that is willed to be valued valuation and all the money
on hand and all the bonds or notes on hand to be collected
that are or may be due me at my death or for property
herein after willed to be sold and all money due my
estate in any way whatever to be equally divided

[Will Book Volume G, page 364]
among my nine living children Alvira B. Taylor Wm.
W. Allison Joseph B Allison Elbridge A. Allison John J
Allison Eleanor Jane Pettigrew Martha L. McMimiway
Giles J Allison Julius F. Allison my Executors as trustees
are to keep the shares of my three daughters in their hands
in the same way and under the same restrictions as is
directed in the foregoing clause[s] willing the negroes to my
said daughters that is I will that they receive each daughters
Share as directed in trust nevertheless for the use and benefit
of Said daughters the money to be put at interest with Securi
ty and the interest to be paid annually to said daughters
and if my said Executors as trustees shall think that my
said daughters [needs more than the interest and my daughters]
wish it they may pay them part of the
principal as they may think is right and take
their receipt for all they pay them during their natural
life and at their deaths whatever remains of said principal
money to be equally divided of each one Share amongst the
children of said daughter but if any of the children of
said daughters should be dead leaving a child or children
they are to have the share that said parent of such children
would get were they living

25th I will and desire that the share of E. A. Allison in my estate
be taken and held by my Executors as trustees for his benefit
the money to be put at interest by said trustees interest to go be
paid annually to said E. A. Allison and if said trustees
thinks he actually needs it and ought to have it they may
pay him a little more

26th I give and bequeath to my son John J Allison fifteen acres
of land off of the Store house lot Said land to be taken off [of] the
North end run off by an East and West line

27th I will my Store house lot or the part of it not willed to be divided
between my two sons J. J. & Wm. W. Allison Wm W. Allison to
have the South side of the road that crosses between the Store
house and blacksmith shop and John J. Allison the North
side said lots of land to be valued as heretofore provided
for valuing land and negroes each to pay or settle to
my estate said valuation as allotted to them

[Will Book Volume G, page 365]
28th It is my will that my Executors sell all my property not
willed of every description on a credit of 12 months taking
bond with good security for the Same and apply the
proceeds of Said sale as directed in a foregoing clause
of this will

29th It is my will that no account shall be raised against any of
my children in favor of my estate for anything they may
have got from me or any time heretofore except what is men=
tioned in this will and they shall be governed by this will
entirely in setting my estate so that there shall be no contro=
versy amongst them I have tried to do equal justice to all you
have all been good children and kind to me and I hope
you will be kink [kind] and affectionate one to another but all notes
or bonds given to me by my children are to be paid or settled
by them to my estate the Same as other people

30th It is my will that if either of my daughters should be without a
home and desire one that the trustees appointed in this will
are hereby authorized to appropriate any funds in their hands
that may that may[sic] be necessary to secure such home for such
daughter during their life and at their death to go to their
children or heirs as directed for the money in a foregoing
clause of this will

31st I give and bequeath to my grand son Joseph C. Davis three hun=
dred dollars in addition to the five hundred given to him in
a forgoing clause of this will to be paid as directed in
that clause

32nd It is my will that the boy Sandy willed to my son Joseph B.
Allison Shall not be removed out of the neighborhood if he
continue abroad said boy Shall be hired or sold to Some
good man in this neighborhood it is also my will and
desire that all my other negroes willed in this will Shall
be kept by those they are willed to except they behave very
much amiss and that they shall be treated very much as I
have done heretofore

33d I give and bequeath to my Son John J. Allison my silver
headed walking cane which was a present to me

34th I hereby nominate and appoint my two sons Wm.
W. Allison & John J. Allison Executors and trustees

[Will Book Volume G, page 366]
to this my last will & testament and if said
trustees should die or move away or otherwise refuse
to act the County Court of Orange to appoint some
suitable persons to act in their stead

                     Given under my hand & seal
                     this the day & year first above written

Signed & sealed in the presence  }
of us by the testator and in     }       J Allison (seal)
presence of each other           }
    Robert Redding
    Hw. Woods

    Whereas I Joseph Allison have made my last will
and testament bearing date on the 18th day of August A.D.
1857 and have thereby made sundry devises and
bequests according to the then existing circumstances
of my state but which circumstances having now
materially changed I do by this my writing which I
hereby declare to be a codicil to my said will

[passage found in loose will, not in will book copy]
to be taken & construed as a part of my last will
[end of skipped passage]

                                              and
testament and I hereby revoke and declare null
and void article 9th of the above will in which I had
willed my boy Arthur Lee to my son Giles J. Allison
and his heirs and in lieu thereof I give and bequeath
to my Executors as heretofore appointed to them their
Executors administrators and assigns forever Martha
and her child Susan and their future increase in
trust nevertheless for the use and benefit of my [own] son
Giles J. Allison during his natural life but not
to be subject to the debts of my said son Giles J. in
any way whatever said Executors as trustees may
hire out said negroes for the benefit of my said son
or if they think best for him they may let him
have the use of said negroes & at his death
said negroes to be equally divided among all the
children of my said son Giles J. and if any of the
children of my said son Giles J. should die before
their Father leaving a child or children said
child or children to take the parents part the above

[Will Book Volume G, page 367]
named negroes Martha and her child Susan
and their increase willed to

[passage found in loose will, not in will book copy]
my executors in trust for the benefit of
[end of skipped passage]

                               my son Giles J. Allison shall
be valued by the men to be chosen to value the property in
the foregoing and the Same deduction of three hundred
dollars shall be made that is directed to my other Sons

Item I will and desire the share of my son Giles J. Allison in
my estate be taken and held by Executors as trustees for
his benefit the money the money[sic] to be put at interest by said
trustees interest to be paid annually to Giles J. and if said
trustees think he actually needs it and ought to have it
they may pay him a little more at their discretion and
at the death of my son Giles J Allison his share to be equally
divided among all his children Surviving him

Item My will as to my boy Arthur Lee is that he shall be valued
after my death by the men chosen as directed in the
11th article of my last will and testament to value the
land and negroes willed and he shall choose his home
among my children and it is my will that my Executors
let him go to whoever of them he chooses at one hundred
dollars less than the valuation provided the master he
chooses makes the payment for him

Item My will as to my boy Frank is that he shall be valued
after my death by the men chosen as directed in the 11th
Art of the foregoing will to value land and negroes willed
and he shall choose his home among my children and
it is my will that my Executors let him go to whoever he
chooses among them at one hundred dollars less than the
Valuation provided the master he chooses makes [the] payment
for him and I further will & direct that the money
ar[r]ising from the Sale of the two boys Arthur Lee and Frank
as above directed shall return into and make a part of
the surplus of my estate to be disposed of by my Executors
as directed in the 24th Article of my Said will and testa=
ment of which this codicil is hereby declared to be a
part

In testimony whereof I hereunto set my hand and
seal the 30th day of July A.D. 1858

[Will Book Volume G, page 368]
Signed sealed published and
declared by the said Joseph
Allison to be a codicil or part of
his last Will and testament in
presence of us who at his request and
in his presence and the presence of
each other do subscribe our names
as witness is thereto               J Allison (seal)
    Robert Redding }
    Hw. Woods      }

Orange County Court August Term 1861
        The foregoing last Will and Testament of Joseph
Allison decd. was duly proved in open Court and ordered
to be recorded See minutes
                         Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 360-367
Recorded Aug 1861

Estate Papers comprise three pages and are found in a folder labeled "Allison, Joseph (1869)".  Some transcribed below.

[Estate Papers - valuation of slaves and land]

We the undersigned having been chosen
by the Legatees of Joseph Allison Deceased
to value the slaves & land as directed in said
Joseph Allisons will have made the
following valuation

Sykes Valued at                                   350
Sandy Valued at                                   600
Henry Valued at                                   800
Samuel Valued at                                 1100
Sally & Dallas  Valued at                         900
Martha & Two Children Valued at                   850
Lee Valued at                                     950
Frank Valued at                                   800

The Tract of Land to Elbridge A Allison           800

The Lot Valued to William including Store House   200

The Lot Valued to John J Allison including Shops   75
                                                    8.75 cts
The residue of land if any to John J Allison at $5 per acre

    The residue surveyed by F. Walker  1 3/4 acres Hm Woods
                                                   John G Walker
                                                   Samuel P Moore
                                                   J J Allen
                                                   John Wood


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

