Will of Martha Anderson - 27 Apr 1865

        In the name of God Amen

I Martha Anderson of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina being of sound mind
and disposing memory do make publish and
declare this to be my last will and Testament
in Manner and form as follows viz

Item 1st I direct that all my Just debts
be paid. if any should exist. together with my
funeral charges

    Item 2nd I give and bequeath to Joseph ["Anders" blotted-out]
Anderson ["son of my nephew" smeared, hard to read] Carnes T. Anderson
my best bed and furniture ---

    Item 3rd I give and bequeath to Martha Ann
Anderson daughter of my said Nephew
Carnes T. Anderson my other bed and furniture
and My stand of drawers --

    Item 4th All the rest and residue of My
Estate both real and personal I give devise and
bequeath to My nephew Carnes T. Anderson
to him and his heirs forever -

    And lastly I nominate appoint & constitute
My nephew Carnes T. Anderson My Executor
to this my last will and Testament in full
confidence that he will execute the same according
to the true intent & meaning thereof & every part and
clause of the same

    In testimony whereof I have hereunto set My
hand and seal this 27th day of April in the year
of Our Lord 1865                        her
Signed Sealed published   }      Martha (X) Anderson (seal)
and delivered in presence }             mark
of us David T. Clark      } Jurat
Samuel M Wilkinson        } Jurat

[Will Book Volume G, page 492]
In the name of God Amen
I Martha Anderson of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina being of sound mind and
disposing memory do make publish and declare this to
be my last will and Testament in man[n]er and form as
follows viz.

Item 1st I direct that all my Just debts be paid
if any should exist. together with my funeral charges

Item 2d I give and bequeath to Joseph Anderson
Son of my nephew Carnes T Anderson my best
bed and furniture

Item 3rd I give and bequeath to Martha Ann
Anderson daughter of my Said nephew
Carnes T Anderson my other bed and furniture
and my Stand of drawers.

Item 4th All the rest and residue of my
estate both real and personal I give devise
and bequeath to my nephew Carnes T Anderson
to him and his heirs forever.

    And lastly I nominate appoint & Constitute
my nephew Carnes T Anderson my Executor to
this my last Will and Testament in full Confidence
that he will execute the Same according to the
true intent & meaning thereof & every part and
clause of the Same.

    In testimony whereof I have hereunto Set my
hand and seal this 27th day of April in the Year
of our Lord 1865.
                                         her
    Signed Sealed published       Martha (X) Anderson (seal)
    and delivered in presence of us      mark
    David T Clark      Test
    Samuel M Wilkinson Test

Orange County Court May Term 1866
The Execution of the foregoing last will and testament
of Martha Anderson decd. was duly proved in open
Court according to law and order[e]d to be recorded
for probate See minutes

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, page 492
Recorded May 1866

Estate papers comprise 16 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Anderson, Martha (1846)". Carnes T. Anderson qualified as Executor, died and Samuel W. Hughes was appointed Administrator de bonis non by 1870.  No other family history found.  Per the 1870 US Census Mortality Index, Carnes seems to have died in Jul 1869 of spinal disease.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

