Will of Robert Abercromby - 31 May 1779

[Will Book Volume A, page 209]
        In the name of God Amen, I Robert Abercromby of the County
of Orange and State of North Carolina Gentn. being weak in Body, but of
perfect mind and memory thanks be given unto God, calling to mind
the Mortality of my Body, and know that it is appointed for all
Men once to die, do make and Ordain this my last Will & Testament
that is to say principally & first of all I give and recommend my
soul into the Hand of allmighty God that gave it and my body I
recommend to the Earth to be buried in deacent Christian burial at
the descrition of my Executors hereafter named, and as touching such
worldly Estate wherewith it has pleased God to bless me in this
Life. I give demise and dispose of the same in the following
manner & form.

First I give to my loving son Charles Abercromby two Negroes, one named
Belle, the other named Rachell to him and his Heirs forever, I also
give bequeath & divise all that Tract or parcel of Land on Ellebees
Creek where I now dwell to my son Charles Abercromby his Heirs &
assigns forever.

Alsow: I give bequeath and devise to my loving son Robert Abercromby
three negroes named Rodger, Beck & Peter, and my Copper Still
& Capp, to him and his Heir forever

I give to my daughter Jenny Mebane, five pound Current Money of
North Carolina State & no more: And the residue of my Estate both
real & personal after payment of all my just Debts Vizt. Money
Horse, Horn Cattle, Hoggs, Household Goods with all the Moveables

[Will Book Volume A, page 210]
whatsoever, I give and bequeath to my living sons Charles Abercromby
and Robert Abercromby (to be equally divided between them) to them
and each of them and their Heirs forever.

Lastly I nominate constitute & appoint my Sons Charles Abercromby & Robert
Abercromby Executor of this my last Will and Testament, hereby
revoking and disannulling all other will or wills by me made either
in word or writing, In Witness whereof I the said Robert Abercromby
have to this my last will and testament set my Hand & affixed
my Seal this thirty first day of May in the year of our Lord, one
thousand seven hundred & seventy nine

Signed Sealed, published and declared      }
by the said Robert Abercromby the Testator }  Robert Abercromby (seal)
as and for his last Will and Testament     }
in the presence of us                      }

William Saxon
      his
James (X) Dixon
     mark               Orange County August Court 1779
Enoch Lewis                                         The Execution of
the above will was duly proved in open Court by the Oaths of Wm
Saxon & James Dixon two of the subscribing Witnesses thereto, and
Ordered to be Recorded.             Test
                                      N. Rochester C.C.

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume A, pages 209-210
Recorded Aug 1779

No loose will found.

No estate papers found.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

