Will of Samuel Simpson - 12 Mar 1847

Loose will, mis-filed in Estate Papers folder labeled "Shutt, Henry (1811)"

In the name of God Amen in the year of out Lord 12th day
of March 1847, I make this my last will ~~~ 1st I give to
my beloved wife the house lots & improvements where I now
reside and all my household & kitchen furniture
also my brick Store House & Lot where I Keep at this
time also my House, Lots & improvements in the
town of Hillsboro, during her natural life, also
my negro woman Maria & girl Emily & Man Josiah
also Six thousand dollars of seven pr ct Stock
of the State of New Your and five share of the Stock
of the Bank of North America Philadelphia, it is
$400 a share, and the income of my estate one year
after my death, 2nd I give to my son in law John
U Kirkland in trust for the sole separate & ex-
clusive of my beloved daughter Elizabeth A --
Kirkland for & during the tenure of her nat-
ural life Twenty shares of the Bank of New York
which is $500. a share and I give to my daughter
in nature of a deed or will to dispose of the whole
or any part of the said property unto one of more
or all of her children than those now living or
hereafter to be born or the de[s]cendants of said child
or children at her discretion and upon and upon[sic]
the death of my said daughter I direct that all
the said property which may not be disposed of
under the power aforesaid shall go to & vest in
such person or persons in such shares & proportions
as the same would by law go to & vest in if this
said property was absolutely her's & She died
in respect Thereof intestate, 3d I give to my son
in Law Thomas B. Hill for the sole separate & ex-
clusive use of me beloved daughter Maria T Hill

[page 2]
                       2
-for & during The tenure of her natural life
one hundred & fifty share of The Bank of the
Manhattan Company of New York, it is $50. a share
and Five Thousand dollars of seven pr ct Stock
of the City of New York & I give to my said daughter
in relation to this property The same power in all
respect & upon her death make the disposition
Thereof in all respect among Those who would be
her heirs at law & next of Kin as are given and
made in relation to the property devised & bequeath-
ed in trust for my daughter Elizabeth A Kirkland
4th I give to my son in law Henry K Nash in
trust for the sole separate & exclusive use of my
beloved daughter Mary Nash Ten Thousand
dollars of Ohio 6 pr ct Stock & at the death of
my beloved wife her mother the House and Lots
and improvements where she now resides in
the town of Hillsboro also my negro girl Mary
and negro boy Owen also the furniture in the house
in which she reside and I give unto my said
daughter in relation to This said property the
same power in all respect & upon her death make
The same disposition Thereof in all respect
among those who would be her heirs at law and
next of Kin as are given to and made in relation
devised & bequeathed in trust for my daughter
Elizabeth A Kirkland, 5th I give to my son in law
Matthias E Manley for the sole, separate & exclu-
sive use of my beloved daughter Sarah Manly
four Thousand dollars of seven pr ct stock
of the State of New York and at the death of
my beloved wife her mother all my of real property

[page 3]
                       3
in the town of Newbern that is the house Lot &
improvements, where I now reside and the brick Store
and Lot which I now keep and from this time
the house and lots, improvements whereon my
beloved daughter now resides and I give unto
my said daughter in relation to this property the
same power in all respects and upon her death
make the same disposition Thereof in all respects
among those who would be her heirs at law &
next of Kin as are give to and made in relation
devised & bequeathed in trust for my daughter Eliz-
abeth A Kirkland - & I give or leave to my nephew
Henry W Jones Twelve hundred dollars & I appoint
my sons in law John U Kirkland, Thomas B Hill
& M. E. Manly and Henry K Nash my executors the
this my last will and any property which may
be left after the within is divided I give to my
beloved wife and at her to be divided as she may
please to direct
                         Samuel Simpson

And this I add to my will & wish my negro men Jim
Rew, Bill Charles & Henry hired out by the Year in
or about this Town of New Bern as they have familys, and
my beloved wife to receive & have the amount they
hire for during her natural life and at her death
I give the same hire to be divided between the
children of my beloved daughters Elizabeth A Kirkland
& Mary Nash and I give my gold watch to my Grand-
-son Samuel Simpson Kirkland

                         Samuel Simpson
[page 4]
                       4
And I also give in addition to that already men-
tioned fifty share of Louisville Bank Stock to my
beloved wife also my negro man Jim Rew & my two
little boys                        Saml Simpson

I also find I made a mistake in giving my beloved
wife six Thousand dollars in New Your State 7 pr cent
Stock, it is intended five Thousand dollars $5000.
of New Your City Seven pr ct Stock which I now hold
This as well as well as[sic] the other Stocks which I give her
I wish her to do with them as she my think best.
                                 Saml. Simpson

I now add to the within my last will at the death
of my beloved wife I give to my son in Law Henry
K. Nash for the use of my beloved daughter Mary
fifty shares of Louisville Bank Stock and instead
of dividing the negro hire mentioned in the within
between the children of both Betsy & Mary, I now
give it all to the children of my beloved daughter
Betsy.
                                 Saml. Simpson
        26 Oct 1848
I give the above mentioned fifty share of Bank
Stock for the use of my dear daughter Mary & her
heirs in the same manner as I have the then Thousand
dollars of Ohio 6 pr ct & the two negroes
                                 S. Simpson

In the place of the five Thousand dollars of
New York 7 pr cent stock given to my son in law
Thomas B Hill in trust of my beloved daughter
Maria T Hill I now leave or give to him

[page 5]
                       6                  -5
-five Thousand dollars in Ohio 6 pr cent State Stock
which I now hold in the same manner as it men-
tioned within $5000 Ohio 6 pr cent.

And I now add to that which is mentioned within
for the use of my beloved daughter Elizabeth A
Kirkland the amount of the money advance on
whatever I may advance and charged on my
books the amount of whatever I may receive
for that debt in any Kind or lot of property and
I add to that already mentioned & given to my be-
loved wife Six Thousand dollars of New York
State Stock of 1855       Saml. Simpson

This 12 day of May in the year of our Lord 1849

                      Newbern 1st July 1850
I now make this alteration in my last will in
which I give for the use of my beloved daughter
Sarah E Manly four Thousand dollars of New York
7 pr cent Stock of 1849 which has been paid and
in place of which I give her one hundred shares
of the stock of the Manhattan Company of New York
And I also give for the use of my beloved daughter
Mark K Nash Two hundred shared of the Man-
-hattan Company of New York as above in place
of the ten Thousand dollars of the Ohio 6 pr ct
Stock given for her use in my last will, the
above mentioned Ohio 6 is those of 1850 therefore
is to be paid the present year is the cause of
my making the exchange and the charter of
the Manhattan Bank or Company is much in its
favour and I am of opinion at this time it is

[page 6]
                       7
well managed by its Cashier & President
                              Saml. Simpson

In place of the two negro boy given to my dear daughter
Mary, I give her my woman Eade and Seven hun-
dred dollars to purchase a nurse with
                                 S. Simpson

                          New Bern 6th December 1850
I now make this alteration in my last will is this
I leave or give my nephew Henry W Jones my negro
Man Henry and at the death of my beloved wife
I give to the daughter of the late John C Stanly
discussed my negro man Josiah commonly called Jo
                              Saml. Simpson

I also give to my beloved wife the hire of my
negroes during her natural life
                              S Simpson
AI
And I also add to that given to my dear daughter
Mariah T Hill one thousand dollar $100
                              Saml. Simpson

        Memorandum
I have exchanged the stock given to my dear
daughter E. A. Kirkland in place of Twenty
share of Stock at five hundred dollars each
the charter being nearly out the directors have a-
greed to change the share to one hundred
dollars each and increase the capital to two
Million of dollars in place of one million. I
then have had the priviledge[sic] of taking two hun-
dred shares which is double the amount of Stock
I held and thus require an attes[t]ation in my last will

[page 7]
                       8
I Therefore give or leave for the use of my dear
daughter E. A. Kirkland one hundred & fifty
share I give or leave to my beloved wife
also five Thousand Ohio 6 pr ct Stock in place
of the city seven pr cent Stock of this city men-
tioned for her in my last will
New York 30th July 1852
                              Saml. Simpson

AI
I also give to the daughter of the pate John C Stanly
three hundred dollars $300. to be paid then at my
death
                              Saml. Simpson

Additional Comments:
Craven County Will Book Volume D, page 264
Recorded Sep 1856

Estate Papers comprise 12 pages and are found in Craven County in a folder labeled "Simpson, Samuel (1850-1859)"

Testator died in 1856 in Craven County.

Elizabeth's husband is listed as John U Kirkland in the will and John A. Kirkland in the estate papers.

[Estate Papers - Inventory 15 Nov 1856]
Inventory of M E Manly Exr
of Saml Simpson

[sundry articled omitted]

        Maria
        Emily & child
        Joe
        Henry
        Charles
        Jim
        Owen
        Jane
        Edy


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

