Will of Isaac Jackson, Jr - 17 Sep 1814

In the name of god Amen:
I Isaac Jackson Junier of the County of Orange and State
of North Carolina, Farmer, being very Sick and weak
in body, but, of A perfect mind and memory,
Thanks be given unto God; Calling to mind the
Mortality of my body, and knowing that it is
Appointed for all men once to die, Do make
and ordain this my last will and testament;
That is to say, I give and recommend my soul
into the hand of Almighty God, that gave
it, and my body I recommend to the earth,

First I give and bequeath to Levi and Jacob
Jackson my note on Isaac Newton,

Second I give and bequeath to James Jackson his
note and 12 dollars that is not on the note,

Third I give and bequeath to Benoni Jackson
my hogs /9 head, Saddle and bridle, and shot gun

fourth I give and bequeath to Elizabeth Randles
and Mary Thompson my mare and Colt
to be Equally divided between them,

Fifth I give and bequeath to Elizabeth Cain
my Chest and bedstead,

Isaac Jackson 40/s James Jackson 6 1/4 dollars and
Hetty Williams owes 3 dollars on which I
allow to be buried with.  September 17th 1814

I do appoint J. Jackson
  Executor                       Isaac Jackson (seal)
     Benoni Jackson  Jurat
                  her
     Mary Jackson  +
                  mark
                          Exr qualified

[Will Book Volume D, page 412]
In the name of God Amen. I Isaac Jackson Junior
of the County of Orange and State of North Carolina, Farmer, being
very Sick and weak in body, but of a perfect mind and memory
Thanks be given unto God Calling to mind the mortality of my body
and knowing that it is appointed for all mance[men] once to die, do make
and ordain this my last Will and Testament that is to say

[Will Book Volume D, page 413]
I give and recommend my soul into the hands of Almighty God who
gave it, and my body I recommend to the earth ~~~~
First I give and bequeath to Levi & Jacob Jackson my note on
Isaac Newton. Second I give and bequeath to James Jackson his
note and 12 dollars that is not on the note, Third I give and
bequeath to Benoni Jackson my hogs 9 heads, Saddle & Bridle &
Shot Gun, Fourth I give and bequeath to Elizabeth Randles and
Mary Thompson my mare and Colt to be divided between them
equally Fifth, I give and bequeath to Elizabeth Cain my Chest
and bedstead Isaac Jackson 40/s James Jackson 6 1/4 dollars
and Hetty Williams owes 3 dollars on which I allow to be buried
with. September 17th 1814 I do appoint J[blot-out] Jackson Executor
Benoni Jackson Jurat
            her                        Isaac Jackson (seal)
Mary Jackson +
            mark

                            Orange County November Term 1814
The Execution of the foregoing last Will & Testament of Isaac Jackson
decd. was duly proved in open Court by the oath of Benoni Jackson
subscribing Witness thereto and ordered to be recorded at the same
time the Executor therin named qualified
                        Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume D, pages 412-413
Recorded Nov 1814

Very clearly written and for a 1814 document, surprisingly contemporary in format, language, punctuation and usage.  Not very many stock phrases of wills at the time ( whereas, heretofore
aforementioned etc.)  Based on the signatures, appears to have been written by the hand of Benoni Jackson.

Is the "note on Isaac newton" is a pamphlet or essay about the famous scientist, rather than a debt?

The "40/s" actually has the "s" written above it, but given the history of the time, and contemporaneous wills, they were still transitioning off of British pound, and various state currencies.  This seems to be shillings, although it might also be cents.

Testator specifically allows "3 dollars" to cover his funeral and burial expenses.

No estate papers found specifically for this testator, but Estate Papers comprising 108 pages were found in a folder labeled "Jackson, Isaac (1820)", some of which pertain to this estate.  If one is interested in this particular estate, look for papers with Benoni as Executor.  Note that Benoni Jackson was also the executor of Isaac Jackson, Sr (will dated 1824) and Levi Jackson was Executor for estate of Isaac Jackson (will dated 1820).


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

