Will of Charles C Smith - 6 Apr 1857

I Charles C Smith of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina b[e]ing of sound mind and
memory do make publish and declare this my last
will and testament in manner and form following
that is to say --

First I give to my wife Mary Smith my tract of
land whereon I now live containing about two
hundred and fifty acres with all my personal
or parrishable[sic] property of every kind consisting of
cattle horses hogs farming tools &c also seven negro
slaves namely Keziah Sarah Margaret Nat, Sam, Nancy
and George untill[sic] my son John Richard Smith shall
arrive at the age of twenty one years but from the
labour of said negroes she is to support and educate
my son John Richard and my daughter Martha
Ann untill my son John Richard shall arrive
at the age of twenty one years, and at that time I
will and desire that all the stock of horses cattle
hogs and grain of every kind and farming tools
shall be equally divided between my wife Mary
Smith and my son John Richard Smith and at
that time I give to my wife Mary Smith absolutely
and forever my two slaves Kiziah and Nat.  I also
give to her during her life or widowhood ninety
acres of off the Southern part of my plantation to
include the mansion and all out houses at her
death or marr[i]age I give the said ninety acres

[page 2]
of land to my daughter Martha Ann Smith

Second I give to my son John Richard Smith
the remainder of my land containing about
one hundred and sixty acres.  I also give to him
my two negro slaves Sam and Sarah.

Thirdly.  I give to my daughter Martha Ann Smith
my three negro slaves Margaret Nancy and George
to be his[hers] forever.

Fourthly I give to William Bird one hundred
dollars to be paid out of any moneys that may
remain due my estate after the payment of my
just debts to be paid to him within three years
from this date

Fifthly.  I will and desire that my executor shall
convey to Burrus Cheek a Deed to ten acres of
land whereon he now lives whenever he the said
Cheek shall pay & satisfy all liabilities for which
I am bound for him in any way or manner
whatever

Sixthly. I do appoint Richard M Jones executor
to this my last will and testament
                            C. C. Smith (seal)

Signed sealed published and declared by the said Charles
C Smith to be his last will and testament in presence
of us who at his request in his presence and in the presence
of each other do subscribe our names as witnesses thereto
this 6th day of April A.D. 1857       Geo. W. Tate    Jur
                                      Wilson Brown    Jur

[Will Book Volume G, page 164]
I Charles C Smith of the County of Orange and State
of North Carolina being of Sound mind and memory
do make publish and declare this my last will and testament
in manner and form following that is to say

First I give to my wife Mary Smith my tract of land whereon
I now live containing about two hundred and fifty acres
with all my personal or perishable property of every kind consisting
of cattle horses hogs farming tools &c also Seven Negro Slaves
namely Kiziah Sarah Margaret Nat Sam Nancy and
George untill my son John Richard Smith shall arrive
at the age of twenty one years but from the labour of said
negroes She is to support and educate my son John Richard
and my daughter Martha Ann untill my son John
Richard shall arrive at the age of twenty one years and
at that time I will and desire that all the stock of horses cattle
hogs and grain of every kind and farming tools ["shall"? x-out]
shall be equally divided between my wife Mary Smith
and my son John Richard Smith and at that time
I give to my wife Mary Smith absolutely and forever
my two Slaves Kiziah and Nat. I also give to her during
her life or widowhood ninety acres of off the Southern
part of my plantation to include the Mansion and
all out houses at her death or marriage I give the
said ninety acres of land to my daughter Martha
Ann Smith

Second I give to my son John Richard Smith the remain-
der of my land containing about one hundred and
sixty acres I also give to him my two negro slaves
Sam and Sarah

Thirdly I give to my daughter Martha Ann Smith my three
negro Slaves Margaret Nancy and George to be hers
forever

Fourthly I give to William Bird one hundred dollars to be
paid out of any moneys that may remain due my
estate after the payment of my Just debts to be paid to
him within three years from this date

Fifthly I will and desire that my Executor shall convey
to Burrus Cheek a deed to ten acres of land

[Will Book Volume G, page 165]
Whereon he now lives whenever he the said Cheek
shall pay & satisfy all liabilities for which I am
bound for him in any way or manner whatever

Sixthly I do appoint Richard M Jones Executor to this my
last will and testament
                                      C. C. Smith (seal)

Signed sealed published and declared by the said
Charles C Smith to be his last will and testament
in presence of us who at his request in his presence
and in the presence of each other do subscribe our
names as witnesses thereto
This 6th day of April AD 1857

                              Geo. W. Tate Jr
                              Wilson Brown Jr

        Orange County Court May Term 1857
The execution of the foregoing last will and
testament of Charles C. Smith decd. was duly proved
in open court and ordered to be recorded.
                               Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 164-165
Recorded May 1857

Estate Papers comprise 12 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Smith, Charles C (1857)".  Richard M Jones, named in the will, did not become executor.  Aquilla Jones was appointed administrator on 25 May 1857.  Negro slaves were conveyed in the will, but mentioned in estate papers, transcribed below.  Note the estate sale list is very brief.  It appears that most of this estate was conveyed to the legatees.

[Estate Papers - Estate Sale 5 Dec 1857]
    A List of the sale of property of C C
Smith dcd. and hire of negros soled[sic]
and hired by me as Admr with the
will annexed of said deceased
5th Decr 1857

                                            $  Cts
1 Bay Colt                John Bain        35  00
1 Bay Mare                Mary Smith        5  00
1 negro Girl Sarah hired  W N Brown        37  50
1   "    " Margaret       Joseph Thompson  18  00

Feb 23rd 1858     Aquilla Jones

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

