Will of John W Rountree - 9 Jul 1853

    In the name of God Amen I John W.
Roundtree[sic] of the County of Orange & State of
North Carolina being weak in body but of perfect mind
and memory, thanks be to God. Therefore do constitute
this my last will and testament and desire it to be
received by all as suck[such]: Itm 1st I most humbly bequeath
my Soul to God who gave it and my body to the dust
to be buried in a Christian-like and decent manor[sic]
at the discretion of the Executor in full assurance
of its Resurrection of the last day: Item 2nd.
I desire all my property to be equally divided
between my Wife Anne Jane Rountree[sic] and my
Son John Rountree. to wit 1 Plantation in the
County of Orange on the waters of Little River
Containing 117 Acres.  also three Negroes Viz. Eady
Augustin and Jerry.  Said land and negroes to be
valued and divided: the balance of my property
to be Sold by my Executor, also my money notes
and accounts.  All to be equally divided between my
beloved wife and child; and I do constitute and
nominate and appoint George C. Ray Executor of
this my last will and Testament and do declare publish
and pronounce this to be my last will and Testament,
in witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
seal this the ninth day of July and in the year
of our Lord one thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty
three 1853

    Pronounced and declared before us

John L. Brown       John W. Rountree (seal)
W. H. Holden

[Will Book Volume G, page 36]
In the name of God Amen I John W
Rountree of the County of Orange & State
of North Carolina being weak in body but
of perfect mind and memory thanks be to
God therefore do constitute this my last Will
and testament and desire it to be received
by all as Such: Item 1st I most humbly bequeath
My Soul to God who gave it and my body to
the dust to be buried in a Christian like and
decent manor[sic] at the discretion of the Executor
in full assurance of its resurrection of the last
day Item 2nd I desire all my property to be
equally divided between my Wife Anne Jane Rountree
and my son John Rountree. to wit 1 plantation
in the county of Orange on the waters of little
River Containing 117 Acres also three negroes
Viz. Eady Augustin and Jerry Said land
and negroes to be valued and divided the
Balance of my property to be sold by my
Executor also my money notes and accounts
all to be equally divided between my beloved
Wife and child,, and I do constitute and
nominate and appoint George C. Ray Execu
=tor of this my last will and testament
and do declare publish and pronounce
this to be my last will and testament
in Witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand
and seal this the ninth day of July and in the
year of our Lord one thousand Eight Hundred and
fifty three 1853

Pronounced and declared before us
John L. Brown          John W. Rountree (seal)
W. H. Holden

          Orange County August Term 1853
The Execution of the last Will & testament of John W Rountree
deceased was duly proved in open Court by the oaths of Jno. L. Brown
and W H Holden the subscribing witnesses and ordered to
be Recorded                          Geo. Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, page 36
Recorded Aug 1853

Note: Will Book Volume G, pages 32-35 are blank

Estate Papers comprise five pages and are found in a folder labeled "Rountree, John W (1867)".  The date on the folder notwithstanding the Estate Sale is dated 20 Oct 1853.  Eady's name appears in the account, and might line up with the amount of $400, but does not have a corresponding purchaser.  Other slaves mentioned in the will do not appear in these papers.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

