Will of James Jackson, Sr - 5 Jun 1829

        In the name of God, Amen; I James Jackson Senr of
the county of Orange and State of North Carolina, being very low in body
but of sound mind and memory; and believing that the affliction that
is now on me will in a short time terminate my existance[sic] in this world,
and being desirous of making ample provision for the support of my
beloved wife Nancy Jackson; and to [do] impartial justice between my
children, do make and ordain this my last Will and Testament;, Viz.

First I give and bequeath unto my beloved wife Nancy Jackson the following
property The old tract of Land whereon I now live, No. one containing
about Two hundred and Twenty five Acres together with all the improve=
=ments there on - No. Two an entry of sixteen and a half acres - No. Three
from Levi Whitted, of Twenty nine and a half acres - No. four from Jacob
Jackson (of the McCool Tract) of fourteen and five twelveth[sic] acres - No. Five
from Margaret Jackson of Fourteen and five twelveth acres - No. Six from
Jane Glenn  of Fourteen and five twelveth acres - No. Seven from James Jack=
=son and Ruth his wife, of Fourteen and five twelveth acres - No. Eight from
John Collins and his wife Polly, of Fourteen and five twelveth acres No. Nine
from ______ Carter and his wife Catherine, of Fourteen and five twelveth acres
and that part of No Eleven from Betsy and Ruth Jackson lying and sit=
=uate on the south side of Foresters Creek estimated at about Twenty acres mak=
=ing the creek the dividing line and attach it to the above named and
described tracts or pieces of Land, which will make about Three Hundred
and seventy eight acres, dureing her natural life of widowhood - also
I give and bequeath unto her two bay Mares Prock and Jolly, - the Two
oxen and ox cart - the Waggon and four sett of Geer - three of the best plows
three hoes - Mattock and sprouting hoe - one harrow - Three axe'es All the house
hold and kitchen furniture -; also Two Negroes Jack and Lucy - Ten head
of the best cattle - Ten head of the best sheep - The stock of hogs at the home=
=stead - also the Black Smith tools - all the above dureing her life time or
widowhood; The corn wheat Meat and Ruff food to remain for the use
of the stock and familey[sic] until November or December, at which time I
wish Levi Whitted and John Nichols or some other honest free holders to have
measured out of the crop for my wife sixty barrels of good corn and Ten
barrels of short corn, fifty bushels of wheat and a sufficiency of Ruff food for
her stock the next year, The balance of my property not herein after Willed,
to be sold, and the debts due me collected, and after paying all my just debts
and defraying all of the expenses of settling my estate, The remainder on hand
shall be equally divided between my wife Nancy Jackson and my child=
ren James Jackson, George Jackson and Anderson Jackson each to share
and share alike;

Second I give and bequeath unto my sons James and George Jackson and their
heirs forever the tract of Land No. Ten from Robert R. Reade of Three Hundred and
twenty acres and that part of No. Eleven from Betsy and Ruth Jackson lying and

[page 2]
situate on the north side of Foresters creek of about Thirty acres, making the
creek the dividing line of the fifty acres bought from Betsy and Ruth Jackson
and adding it to the Robert R. Reade tract, which will make about Three
Hundred and fifty acres, to be divided between them equally in quantity
and quality, by Three disinterested honest freeholders each to choose a Man
and they a Third - also the undivided part as stands No. Twelve of the tract
of Land Willed by George Riggs Senr to his Daughter Nancy My Wife
and Rachel the wife of Amos Nichols and Margaret Riggs, and to be equally
divided between them at the death or marriage of Margaret, this undivided
part or parcel of Land to be divided between them and their heirs under the same
rules and Regulations as above stated

Third The above named tracts or parcels of Land with all the advantages there unto
appertaining named in the first Item, and Willed unto my wife Nancy
Jackson dureing her lifetime or widowhood, I do give and bequeath unto my
son Anderson and to his heirs forever, after the death or marriage of my wife
Nancy Jackson, and after her death or marriage the said Lands described and
attached together with the old tract of Two Hundred and twenty five acres - with that
of the McCool tract and the part taken from the purchase from Betsy and Ruth
Jackson lying and situate on the south of Foresters creek, so that it will make
about three Hundred and seventy eight acres, shall be his, together with all the
improvements thereon

Fourth   I give and bequeath unto my son James and to his heirs, after the
death or marriage of my wife Nancy Jackson the Blacksmith tools

Fifth   After the death or marriage of my wife Nancy Jackson, the person=
=al property will to her as above described, together with the increase thereof
to be sold and equally divided between my Three children James Jackson
George Jackson, Anderson Jackson and their heirs to share and share
a like

   I do hereby appoint and ordain my beloved wife Nancy Jackson
Executrix, and my son James Jackson Executor to this my last will
and Testament

           In Testimony where of I have here unto sett my hand
and affixed my seal.  The fifth day of June in the year of our
Lord one Thousand eight Hundred and Twenty nine

     The word "Their" interlined in the tenth line from the top, and the word "property"
   Interlined in the second line of the fifth item was done before signing
----------------------------------------
Signed and sealed in presence
of
    Michael Ray         }                              James Jackson (seal)
    Tho. W. Holden      }  Jurant

                              James Jackson qualified Exr.

[Will Book Volume E, page 193]
In the name of God, Amen. I James Jackson Senr. of the
County of Orange and State of North Carolina being very low in body but of
sound mind and memory; and believing that the affliction that is now on
me will in a short time terminate my existence in this world, and being
desirous of making ample provision for the support of my beloved Wife
Nancy Jackson; and to do impartial Justice between my children, do make
and ordain this my last Will and Testament, Viz. .    .    .    .    .

First I give and bequeath unto my beloved Wife Nancy Jackson the following
property, The old tract of Land whereon I now live, No. one containing about
two hundred and twenty five acres, together with all the improvements thereon
No. Two an Entry of sixteen and a half Acres ~ No. Three from Levi Whitted of
Twenty nine and a half acres - No. four from Jacob Jackson (of the McCool
tract) of fourteen and five twelfth acres ~ No. Five from Margaret Jackson
of fourteen and five twelfth acres ~ No. Six from Jane Glenn of fourteen and
five twelfth acres ~ No. Seven from James Jackson and Ruth his wife of fourteen
and five twelfth acres - No. Eight from John Collins and his wife Polly of fourteen
and five twelfth acres No. Nine from ______ Carter and his wife Catherine of
fourteen and five twelfth acres ~~ and that part of No. Eleven from Betsey and
Ruth Jackson lying and situate on the South side of Forresters Creek esti
=mated at about twenty acres making the Creek the dividing line, and attach
it to the above named and described tracts or pieces of Land, which will
make about Three Hundred and seventy Eight Acres, during her natural
life of Widowhood, also I give and bequeath unto her Two bay mares Prock
and Jolly ~ the two Oxen and Ox Cart ~~ the Wagon and four set of Geer ~~

[Will Book Volume E, page 194]
Three of the best Ploughs, three Hoes, Mattock and Sprouting Hoe, One Harrow
three Axes ~~ All the Household and Kitchen furniture ~~ also two negroes Jack and
Lucy, Ten head of the best Cattle ~~ Ten head of the best Sheep ~~ the stock of Hogs at the
Homestead ~~ also the Blacksmith tools ~~ all the above during her lifetime or widow-
-hood; The Corn, wheat, Meat and Rough food to remain for the use of the stock
and family until November or December at which time I wish Levi Whitted
and John Nichols or some other honest freeholders to have measured out of the
crop for my wife Sixty barrels of good Corn, and Ten barrels of short Corn,
Fifty bushels of Wheat and a sufficiency of rough food for her stock the next
year; The balance of my property not hereinafter Willed, to be sold, and the
debts due me collected and after paying all my Just debts and defraying [all of]
the expenses of settling my Estate, the remainder on hand shall be equally
divided between my Wife Nancy Jackson and my children James Jackson
George Jackson and Anderson [Jackson] each to share and share alike. ~~~

Second I give and bequeath unto my Sons James and George Jackson and their
Heirs forever, the tract of Land No. Ten from Robert R. Read of three hundred
and twenty acres, and that part of No. Eleven from Betsey & Ruth Jackson
lying and situate on the North side of Forresters Creek of about thirty acres
making the Creek the dividing line of the fifty acres bought from Betsey and
Ruth Jackson and adding it to the Robert R. Read tract, which will make
about Three hundred and fifty acres, to be divided between them equally in
quantity and quality, by three disinterested honest Freeholders, each to
choose a Man and they a third ~ also the undivided part as stands No. Twelve
of the tract of Land Willed by George Riggs Senr to his daughter Nancy
my wife, and Rachel the Wife of Amos Nichols and Margaret Riggs and
to be equally divided between them at the death or marriage of Margaret,
this undivided part or parcel of Land to be divided between them and their
Heirs under the same rules and regulations as above stated ~~~~~~

Third The above named tracts or parcels of Land with all the advantages
thereunto appertaining named in the first Item and Willed unto my wife
Nancy Jackson during her lifetime or widowhood, I do give and bequeath
unto my son Anderson and to his heirs forever, after the death or marriage
of my wife Nancy Jackson, and after her death or marriage the said Lands
described and attached together with the old tract of two hundred and twenty
five acres ~ with that of the McCool tract and the part taken from the purchase
from Betsy and Ruth Jackson lying and situate on the South side of
Forresters Creek, so that it will make about Three hundred and seventy eight

[Will Book Volume E, page 195]
acres, shall be his, together with all the improvements thereon   .   .   .

Fourth I give and bequeath unto my son James and to his heirs, after the death or
marriage of my Wife Nancy Jackson the Blacksmiths tools ~~~~

Fifth, After the death or marriage of my wife Nancy Jackson, the personal
property will to her as above described together with the increase thereof to
be sold and equally divided between my three Children James Jackson, George
Jackson and Anderson Jackson and their heirs to share & share alike ~~~

I do hereby appoint and Ordain my beloved wife Nancy Jackson Executrix
and my son James Jackson Executor to this my last Will and Testament ~~~

In Testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my
Seal the fifth day of June in the year of our Lord one thousand
Eight Hundred and Twenty nine ~~

Signed and Sealed in presence of                   James Jackson (seal)
Michael Ray
Tho. W. Holden

                                  Orange County August Term 1829
The Execution of the foregoing last Will and Testament of James Jackson
decd. was duly proved in open Court by the oath of Michael Ray and
Thomas W. Holden subscribing witnesses thereto and ordered to be recorded
At the same time James Jackson the Executor therein named appeared
in open Court and qualified accordingly ~~~
                          Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume E, pages 193-195
Recorded Aug 1829

This will was written in very small letters.  The ink has faded  and the paper has yellowed, making the text somewhat challenging to read.  The writer uses mostly standard spellings, so that helps.

Estate Papers comprise 40 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Jackson, James (1829)".  There are several lists of notes paid, but no inventory or estate sale papers.  Includes division of land by "Freeholders" Levi Whitted, Jesse Miller and James Jackson.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

