Will of Robert Hall, Sr - 6 Apr 1864

I Robert Hall of [the] County of Orange and
State of N. Carolina, being of sound mind
and memory, but considering the uncertainty
of my earthly existence, do make and declare
this my last Will and Testament in manner
and form following, that is to say ---

First that my executors (hereafter named) shall
provide for my body a decent burial suitable
to the wishes of my relations and friends and
pay all funeral expenses together with my just
depts[sic] howsoever and to whomsoever owing out of
the money that may first come into their
hands as a part or parcel of my estate.

Item 2nd I give and devise to my beloved wife
all my land and negroes and all the balance
of my property to have and to use according to
her own wishes during her natural life and
at her death it is my will that all my land
shall belong to my two youngest sons James
and William equally. To have and to hold to
them and their heirs in fee simple forever.

    I give and bequeath to my daughter Nancy
wife of Arthur Ashley Fifty dollars to be paid by
my executors within two years from the time
of my death.

Item I give and bequeath to my Grand daughter
Mary Harris four hundred dollars to be paid
by my executors within two years from the
time of my death.

Item I give and bequeath to my Grand son
Nicholson Garrard son of Thompson Garrard
Fifty dollars to be paid within two years from
the time of my death.

Item it is my will and desire that after
the death of my wife Martha Hall that all
my estate except the legacies above specified
shall be equally divided between my children
namely - Rebecca Gates, John Hall, Mary

[page 2]
Hall, Emeline Woods, James Hall, William Hall
and Louisa Hall.

Item It is my will and desire in case
either of my sons James or William should
die that the other inherit all my land at
my wife's death.

Item And lastly I do hereby constitute and
appoint my friend Wm. Harris and my wife
Martha Hall my lawful executors to all
intents and purposes to execute this my last
will and Testament according to the true
intent and meaning of the same and every
part and clause, thereof hereby revoking and
declaring utterly void all other wills and Tes-
taments by me heretofore made. In witness
whereof I said Robert Hall do hereunto
set my hand and seal, This the 5th day
of April A.D. 1864.
                   Robert Hall Senior (seal)

Signed and sealed, published, and declared
by the said Robert Hall to be his last will
and Testament in the presence of us, who at
his request and in his presence do subscribe
ourselves as witnesses thereto
Wm H. Carrington Jurat
Washington Laws Jurat

[Will Book Volume G, page 433]
    I Robert Hall of [the] County of Orange and State of of[sic]
N Carolina being of sound mind and memory but
considering the uncertainty of my earthly existence do
make and declare this my last will and Testament in
manner and form following, that is to say

    First that my Executors hereafter named shall
provide for my body a decent burial suitable to the
wishes of my relations and friends and pay all
funeral expenses together with my Just debts howsoever
and to whomsoever owing out of the money that may first
come into their hands as a part or parcel of my Estate

Item 2nd I give and devise to my beloved wife all my land
and negroes and all the balance of my property to have
and [to] use according to her own wishes during her natural
life: and at her death it is my will that all my land shall
belong to my two youngest sons James and William
equally. To have and to hold to them and their heirs
in fee simple forever

    I give and bequeath to my daughter Nancy wife
of Arthur Ashley Fifty dollars to be paid by my Executors
within Two years from the time of my death.

Item I give and bequeath to my Grand daughter Mary
Harris four hundred dollars to be paid by my Executors
within two years from the time of my death

Item I give and bequeath to my Grand Son Nicholson Garrard
son of Thompson Garrard Fifty dollars to be paid within
two years from the time of my death

Item It is my will and desire that after the death of
my wife Martha Hall that all my estate except the legacies
above specified shall be equally divided between my
children namely Rebeca Gates John Hall, Mary Hall
Emiline Woods James Hall William Hall and Louisa Hall

Item It is my will and desire in Case either of
my Sons James or William should die. That the other
inherit all my land at my wifes death

Item And lastly I do hereby constitute and
appoint my friend Wm. Harris and my wife Martha
Hall my lawful Executors to all intents and

[Will Book Volume G, page 434]
purposes to execute this my last will and Testament
according to the true intent and meaning of the same
and every part and clause thereof hereby revoking
and declareing[sic] utterly void all other wills and Testaments
by me heretofore made.

    In witness whereof I said Robert Hall do
hereunto set my hand and Seal This the 5th day
of April AD 1864.
Signed and sealed published and declared by the }
said Robert Hall to be his last will            } Robert Hall Senior (seal)
and Testament in the presence of us             }
who at his request and in his                   }
presence do subscribe ourselves as              }
witnesses thereto                               }
    Wm H. Carrington                            }
    Washington Laws                             }

          Orange County Court May Term 1864
The foregoing last will and Testament of Robt Hall
Decd ws duely proven in open Court according
to law and order[e]d to be recorded

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 433-434
Recorded May 1864

Estate Papers comprise 73 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Hall, Robert (1865)". Testator died in April 1864. Probate began before the end of the war, but was not complete. The land was divided to provide the widow her dower and the remainder was sold to pay the debts of the estate.  Martha was originally the Executrix, but dissented and John W. Hall was appointed Administrator in May 1866.

[Estate Papers - Inventory 20 Apr 1864]

To Augt. Term 1865

An Inventory of property belonging
to the estate of Robert Hall
decd, that come into the hands
of Martha Hall his Executrix
on the 20th April 1864 (to wit.)

Cash on hand $62 Confederate
money one 4 per cent confederate
bond for $200

Land 284 acres

10 Negroes Harriet Margaret
Henry Lewis Rebeccka Dave
Susan Billy & Joe Twins
Mary

[sundry items omitted]

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

