Will of David Ray - 14 Nov 1807

              My Will

In the name of God Amen I David
Ray of Orange County North Carrolina
being very sick and weak in Body; but
being perfectly in my sences and sound
of memmory; Thanks be to almity god
for these singular Blessings, calling unto
mind the mortality of my body and knowing
it is once appointed for all men once to
die do make and ordain this my last will and
testament. That is to say; principally and
first of all I give and recommend my soul
into the hands of almighty God who give it
and my Body I recommend to the earth to
be Buried in decent Christian Burial at
the discretion of my executors; nothing doub=
=ing but I shall at the general Resurrection,
Receive the same again by the mighty power [of]
God; and as touching such worldly estate as it
has pleased him to Bless me with in this life
I give, devise and dispose of in the follo[w]ing
order and form .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

    First I give and bequeath to William my eld
=ist son five shilling to be reaised and levied
out of my property and effects of lawful money
of NCarrolina. - To my beloved son John five
shilling to be raaised as above ---- To my well
                                         be

[page 2]
beloved son David five shillings to be raised as
above ~~~~ To my Dear son Hugh five shilling
to be raised as above ---- To my dutiful and
well beloved daughter Reachel Gibson I give and
bequeath five shillings to be raised as above ----

To My daughter Mary Becom five shillings to be
raised as above, -- To my beloved son James
five shillings to be raised as above -- To my
beloved daughter Ginny Jones five shillings to
be raised as above --- To my beloved son and
youngest Child Alexander I give and bequeath
a young roan horse which has formerly been
 called his - and I also allow to him Alexr.
five Barrels of corn of the present Crop likewise
one stack of corn blades --- To my beloved son
Henry I give and bequeath five shillings to be raised
and levied out of my property and effects -- To
my beloved daughter Nelly Rickets five shillings
to be raised as above.--- To my true and well
beloved wife Also I give and bequeath, after my
Just debts are paid and discharged, all the estate
goods, and chattles that belong to me together with
all my debts that are due me and to her my wife
I allow all the money, benefits and profits that
shall come or accrue from my estate or property
and I also appoint my wife executrix to my estate
to act with John Pickard elder whom I have also
appointed executor to act with her. this being my
last will and testament I now hereunto set my hand
and seal this 14th of November 1807         his
Testes                                David (X) Ray Sen (seal)
John H. Pickard   John Grimes Jurat        mark
                         Exrs qualified

[Will Book Volume D, page 231]
        My Will

In the Name of God Amen I David Ray of Orange
County North Carolina being very sick & weak in body
but being perfectly in my Senses and sound of memory thanks
be to Almighty God for these singular Blessings cal[l]ing
unto mind the mortality of my body & knowing it is
once appointed for all men once to die do make and ordain
this my last Will and Testament (That is to say) princi
pally & first of all I give and recommend my soul into

[Will Book Volume D, page 232]
the hands of Almighty God who gave it and my body I recom
mend to the earth be buried in decent Christian Burial at the
discretion of my executors nothing doubting but I shall at the ge-
=neral Resurrection receive the same again by the mighty power [of]
God and as touching such Worldly estate as it has pleased
him to bless me with in this life (#) I give devise & dispose of
in the following order and form (#) First I give & bequeath
to William my eldest son five shilling to be raised and levied
out of my property & effects of lawful money of NCarolina
To my [beloved] son John five shillings to be raised as above --(#) To my
well beloved son David five shillings to be raised as above --
To my dear son Hugh five shilling to be raised as above ----
To my dutiful and well beloved Daughter Reachel Gibson I
give & bequeath five shillings to be raised as above -- (#)
To my Daughter Mary Becom five shillings to be raised as
above --(#) To my beloved son James five Shillings to be
raised as above To my beloved Daughter Jenny Jones five
Shillings to be raised as above (#) To my beloved son &
Youngest Child Alexander I give and bequeath a young roan [horse]
which has formerly been Calld his and I also allow to him Alexr.
five Barrels of Corn of the present Crop likewise one stack
of Corn blades to my beloved Son Henry I give and bequeath
five shillings to be raised & levied out of my property & effects
To my beloved Daughter Nelly Ricketts five shillings to
be raised as above.  (#) To my true and well beloved wife
also I give and bequeath after my Just debts are paid and dis
charged all the estate goods and chattles that belong to me
together with all my debts that are due me and to her my
Wife I allow all the money benefits and profits that shall [come]
or accrue from my estate or property --------------

[Will Book Volume D, page 233]
And I also appoint my Wife Executrix of my estate to act with
John Pickard elder whom I have also appointed executor to act
with her this being my last Will & Testament I now hereunto set
my hand & Seal this 14th of November 1807
Teste                             his
John H. Pickard             David (X) Ray
John Grimes                      mark

                     Orange County May Court 1808
The execution of foregoing last Will and Testament
of David Ray Decd. was duly prov'd in open Court by the
Oath of Jno Grime one of the subscribing Witnesses thereto
and ordered to be recorded --- at the same time the
Exrs therein named qualified accordingly

             Test J Taylor CC
                     by    Theo Ferguson

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume D, pages 231-233
Recorded May 1808

No estate papers found.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

