Will of William Trice, Sr - 7 Dec 1838

I William Trice Senr of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina, being weak in body
but sound in mind and memory, and wishing to
dispose of all the estate with which is has pleased
God to bless me; do hereby make and declare
this to be my last will and testament, revo=
king all other wills heretofore made by me

1. I give and bequeath to Willis Dillard so
much of my land ioining the Widow Daniel
as at the value of five Dollars per acres will
repay to him the principal interest and costs
of the Philpott and Barbee Debts which he
paid as security for my son James Trice.
The said land to be laid off by the County Sur-
veyor or some other person who may be chosen
for that purpose by my executors and Willis
Dillard

2 All the rest and residue of my estate both
real and personal and all money due to
me, I leave and devise to my beloved wife
Frances Trice for and during her natural
life, and the perishable estate thus left to her, she
may use and enjoy without being liable to any
account for the same to my executors, but
the stock on land of every description at
my death shall be numbered and valued
by my executors and at my said wife's death
["fi there is then" x-out] an equal value of Stock (if my
said wife should leave so much), shall again

[page 2]
fall into and belong to my estate.

3 After the death of my wife I direct and will that all
of my estate shall be valued by five commissioners to be
appointed by the County Court of Orange County under
their hands & seals in writing and upon oath, the land
separately and all the personal and perishable
estate to itself, and three of said commissioners agree+
ing and acting shall be sufficient to act.

4 and in making such valuation they shall estimate
the value of the lands which are now in the possession
of any of my children, free from any improvements
which they have have put upon the land, and
free from any rent - and after Such valuation
shall have been made they shall divide the
said lands into four equal parts; and they
shall also divide all my personal estate and effects
into four equal parts.

And I hereby give and devise all my estate both
real and personal after the death of my said
wife, as follows: Two fourths parts or shares there=
of according to the valuation and division to be
made as aforesaid to my son Zachariah Trice
his Heirs and assigns forever

One other fourth part of my estate both real and
personal according to said valuation and division
I give and devise to my son ["James" x-out] William Trice his heirs and
assigns forever; but the share of my son ["James" x-out] William is to
be liable for and account to my estate for any sum
of money which I may during my life have
to pay for him on account of the debt due

[page 3]
to the Bank of the State at Raleigh
or which my estate may pay after my death his true interest in said
debt so far as the same was contracted for his benefit will
appear from the books of said Bank: as the present debts[sic]
was consolidated out of three separate debts due said
Bank by my three sons Zachariah William and James
And in as much as I have herein made the portion
of my estate willed to my said son William liable for
my indemnity as his security aforesaid I do hereby
release and will to my said son William all the
property and effects which he conveyed to me by
deed bearing date the 24th Feby 1838

The other fourth part of my estate according to the
said valuation and division I give and devise
to my daughter Penny for and during her natural
life, and at her death equally to be divided among
and between all her children, and should any
of her children die during her life, without leaving
lawful issue or without being married the share
of such child or children shall go to the survi=
vors

But after the death of my wife and before any
valuation and division shall be made, I will and
bequeath to my grand daughter Penney Dillard
one negro girl named Alesa and a boy named
Abram. And to my son William I give a negro
girl he now has in his possession by the name of Harriet
subject to the payment of the Bank debt aforesaid.

I further will and direct that in making the valu
ation and division aforesaid the commissioners shall
not take into consideration any negroes or other
property which I have heretofore given to
any of my children

[page 4]
And I further will and direct that either of my said chil=
dren who is in possession of any of my land may hold
the same as a portion of his or her share, and if the same
is more than a full share then the difference in value
shall be taken from the share of the ["real" x-out ]personal estate going to
such child or shall be paid in money to the share or shares
of land if less value.

It is further my will and desire that in consideration
of my having given to my son Zachariah two shares
of my estate he shall pay the share or portion of my
son James in the Bank debt. and I hereby charge
the said shares willed to him with the payment
of the same.

I hereby appoint my sons Zachariah and William
executors of this my last will and testament.

With the interlineation of "William" twice on the second
page "or which my estate may pay after my death"
on the third page and "personal" on the fourth page

I publish and declare the foregoing to be my last
will and testament, revoking all other wills made
by me this the 7 of December 1838

Signed sealed and published
in the presence of               William Trice Senr (seal)
T. Bilbo         }
R. Henslee       } Jurat
                        Exrs qualified

[Will Book Volume F, page 19]
I William Trice Senr of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina being weak in body but sound
in mind and memory and wishing to dispose of all the estate
with which is has pleased God to bless me: do hereby make
and declare this to be my last will and testament revoking
all other wills heretofore made by me ---

1. I give and bequeath to Willis Dilliard so much of my ["property" x-out]
land Joining the widow Daniel as at the value of five
Dollars per acres will repay to him the principal interest
and costs of the Philpott and Barbee Debts which he paid
as Security for my son James Trice. The said land to be laid
off by the County Surveyor or some other person who may be
chosen for that purpose by my Executors and Willis Dilliard

2 All the rest and residue of my Estate both real and personal
and all money due to me I leave and desire[sic] to my belove[d] wife
Frances Trice for and during her natural life and the perishable
estate thus left to her she may use and enjoy without being
liable to any account for the same to my Executors but the Stock
on land of every description at my death shall be numbered &
valued by my Executors and at my said Wifes death an equal value
of Stock (if my said wife should leave so much) shall again
fall into and belong to my estate.-

3 After the death of my wife I direct and will that all of my
estate Shall be valued by five Commissioners to be appointed by
the County Court of Orange County under their hands & seals
in writing and upon oath, the land Separately and all the personal
and perishable estate to its self, and three of said commissioners agree
-ing and acting shall be sufficient to act.

[Will Book Volume F, page 20]
4 and in Makeing such valuation they Shall estimate the value
of the lands which are now in the possession of any of my children
free from any improvements which they have have put upon the
land and free from any rent and after Such valuation Shall have
been made they shall divide the said lands into four equal parts
and they shall also divide all my personal estate and effects into
four equal parts:-

And I hereby give and desire all my estate with[orig: both] real and personal
after the death of my said Wife as follows: Two fourths parts or
Shares thereof according to the Valuation and division to be made as
aforesaid to my son Zachariah Trice his Heirs and assigns forever
One other fourth part of my estate with[orig: both] real and personal according
to said Valuation and division I give and desire to my son William
Trice his Heirs and assigns forever, but the share of my son William
is to be liable for and account to my estate for any sum of money
which I may during my life have to pay for him on account of the
debt due to the Bank of the State at Raleigh or which my estate may
pay after my death his true interest in said debt so far as the same
was contracted for his benefit will appear from the books of said
Bank as the present debts[sic] was Consolidated out of three seperate
debts due said Bank by my three son[s] Zachariah William and James
and in as much as I have herein made the portion of my estate willed
to my said Son William li[a]ble for my indemnity as his security aforesaid
I do hereby release and will to my said son William all the property and
effects which he conveyed to me by deed bearing date the 24th Feby 1838

The Other fourth part of my estate according to the said
Valuation and division I give and devise[sic] to my daughter Penny
for and during hir natural life and at her death Equally to be
divided among and between all her children and should any of
her children die during her life without leaving lawful
issue or without being married the share of such child or
Children shall go to the Survivors

But after the death of my wife and before any Valuation and division
Shall be made. I will and bequeath to my grand daughter Penney
Dilliard one negro girl named Alesa and a boy named Abram
and to my son William I give a Negro girl he now has in his possession
by the name of Harriet subject to the payment of the Bank debt
aforesaid.

I further will and direct that in making the valuation

[Will Book Volume F, page 21]
and division aforesaid the Commissioners Shall not take into
Consideration any Negroes or other property which I have
heretofore given to any of my Children And I further will
and direct that either of my said children who is in possession
of any of my land may hold the same as a portion of his or her
Share and if the same is more than a full share then the diffe
-rence in Value Shall be taken from the share of the personal
estate going to Such Child or shall be paid in money to
the share or shares of land if less value --

It is further my will and desire that in consideration of
my haveing given to my son Zachariah two shares of my estate
he shall pay the share or portion of my son James in the Bank
debt. and I hereby charge the said shares willed to him with
the payment of the same--

I hereby appoint my son[s] Zachariah and William Executors
of this my last will and testament.

I publish and declare the foregoing to be my last will and Testament
revoking all other wills made by me this the 7 of December 1838
Signed sealed and published
in the presence of                William Trice Senr (seal)
T. Bilbo
Richard Henslee

                       Orange County February Term 1839
The Execution of the foregoing Last Will and Testament of
William Trice Senr decd. was duly proved in open Court
by the oath of T Bilbo & Richard Henslee the subscribing
Witnesses thereto and ordered to be recorded At the same
time Zachariah Trice & William Trice the Executors therein
named appear in open Court and qualified accordingly
                       Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume F, pages 19-21
Recorded Feb 1839

Estate Papers comprise 95 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Trice, William (1839)".  Penny is Penelope, married William Rhodes and David Vickers.  Penelope died 9 Feb 1863 leaving: James Rhodes (living in TN), Pleasant Rhodes (living in AR), Zachary Rhodes (living in MS), Willie T. Rhodes (living in ______), Melinda married George M. Vickers, Francis Vickers, Thos. W. Vickers and Mary Anne wife of John H. Anderson

[Estate Papers - Valuation of Slaves 14 Apr 1844]

The valuation of the negroes thus ------

Ben Blacksmith at ---- $100
Marry an[?] at ------- $425
Winney ------------ at $375
Harry ------------- at $175
John -------------- at $125
Henry Washington -- at $ 50
David (old man)     at $10

April 18th 1844

[Estate Papers - Petition to Divide Land and Slaves May 1863]

North Carolina } Court of Pleas &c
Orange County  } May Term 1863
        To the worshipful the Justices of the
said Court:

        The petition of David Vickers, George W.
Vickers & wife Melinda, Frances Vickers, and John H.
Anderson & wife Mary Anne respectfully represent

    That in the year 1839 died William Trice Senr.
leaving a last will and testament duly executed
to pass personal and real estate, which at the
Feby Term 1839 of this Court was duly admitted
to probate, the Executor therein named having been
qualified as such, That by said Will, a duly certified
Copy of which is hereunto appended and prayed to
be taken as part of this petition, the said testator
devised and bequeathed One Fourth part of his estate
consisting of lands and slaves, to his daughter Penelope
who had intermarried with one William Rhodes
then deceased and late of said County, but at that
time was was the wife of your petitioner David
Vickers; ~ for and during the life of the said
Penelope, and after her death equally to be divided
amongst here surviving children.

    Your petitioners, show that the said Penelope
died upon the 9th day of February 1893 leaving
surviving her he following children; towit, James
Rhodes who lives in Tennessee, Pleasant Rhodes
living in Arkansas, Zachary Rhodes living in
Mississippi, Willie T. Rhodes living in ________

[page 2]
Melinda, wife of your petitioner George M.
Vickers, Francis Vickers, also a petitioner, Thos
W. Vickers and Mary Anne wife of your petitioners
John H. Anderson ~ the said four last mentioned
children being resident of said County of Orange.

    Your petitioner David Vickers showeth that
in the life time of the said Penelope, towit
upon the _____ day of ______ 18 ___ he became the
purchaser of the feesimple interest of the said
Willie T. Rhodes in the estate so vested as above
in the said Penelope for life, and in the
same way, upon the ___ day of ____ 18 ___ he
bought the like interest of he said Thomas M.
Vickers, as will better appear by their respective
deeds, now in the possession of said David
and which he will produce to this worshipful
Court whenever so ordered.

    Your petitioners further show to your Worships
that upon the death of said William Trice
such proceeding were had that certain slaves
were allotted to the said Penelope as her share
of his estate & that of these there now survive
a woman, Winney, aged about 50 years; a man
John aged about 21 years, and a boy Buck,
aged about 15 years ~ that there are now to be
divided betwixt your petitioners David Vickers
Frances Vickers, George W. Vickers & wife Melinda
and John H Anderson & wife Mary Ann, together
with James Rhodes, Pleasant Rhodes and Zachary

[page 3]
Rhodes is giving to said David two shares; to
said George and John, in right of their wives res-
spectively, and to the devisees mentioned one share
each, and your petitioners show that to make
such division it will be necessary to sell the
said slaves, Your petitioners also show that as
another part of said estate allotted to said Pene-
lope ???? the will of her Father and which is
now to be divided amongst your petitioners and
the devisees above mentioned in the proportions above
set forth is a tract of land containing Three
Hundred and Sixty Eight (368) Acres more
or less upon the waters of New Hope Creek in
said County and adjoining the lands of James
N. Patterson, Hiram Marcom, William Trice
and John Boroughs

    To the end therefore that said slaves and
land may be divided between your petitioners
and the devisees entitled as above, and that your
petitioners may have such ???? & further relief
as &c &c: May it please your Worships to grant
to your petitioners the State's writ of subpoena
to be issued to said Thomas M. Vickers & Willie
F. Rhode commanding them &c and forasmuch
as the said James Rhodes, Pleasant Rhodes and
Zachary Rhodes are non resident of this State
May it please your Worships to have publication
duly made for them.

        And your Petitioners will ever pray &c
                              S. T. Phillips
                                        Solr


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

