Will of Alexander Mebane, Sr - 30 Apr 1789

In the name of God Amen I Alexander Mebane of the
County of Orange and State of North Carolina, being Weak in body but of sound and perfect
Mind and Memory blessed be God for it, and Calling to mind the mortality of my body, and
knowing that it is appointed for all men once to Die, I theretofore make and Ordain this my
Last will and Testament, to wit I first and principally Give and Recommend my Soul
into the hands of Almighty God that Gave it and my body I Recommend to the Earth
to be buried in a Descent and Christian manner (at the Discreation of my Executors), nothing
Doubting but at the General resurrection I Shall Receive the same again, by the mighty power of God,
and as touching Such Worldly Estate wherewith it hath pleased God to bless me with in
this Life, I Give Demise and Dispose of in following manner, to wit, I Give and bequeath
to my Loving Wife a horse known by the name of Sharp, a mear[mare] and Colt four Cows
all the sheep on on[sic] the plantation, Two Feather beds and furniture, & all my house
hold furniture Except What Will be hereafter mentioned, the Dwelling house Kitchen and
barn, the Negroes or Slaves Tamer, Ben, Jane, Caleb, Joe, Patience, her Son Joe Nell &
Tom, ["Aaron & Esther" x-out] & all the profit arising from things of the plantation, this is all the
Clear Land that I have Cleared as yet on said plantation During her Life. - - - - - - -

Itim ,I Give and bequeath unto my Loving Children besides what I have already Given them, in
manner following, to wit, I Give to my Son William five pounds Specie - - - - - - - -

Itim, I Give to my Son Alexander Mulatto Tom. Itim, I Give to my Son James, a Negro buoy nam
ed  Clark and fifty Acres of mire? Land to be Laid off adjoyning the Line I had Surveyed
to him before. - - - Itim, I Give to my Son John a Mulatto buoy nemed[sic] Frank. - - -

Itim, I Give to my Daughter Janet Anderson after my Wifes death a Mulatto Wench named
Nell. - - - Itim, I Give to my Daughter Ann Morrow Twenty Pounds Spacie[sic] to be paid
out of my Estate Within Two years after my Decease - -  & after my Wifes decease the
Mulatto Wench named Patience. - - - Itim, I Give to my Daughter Margret Murdaugh

[page 2]
a Mullatto wench named Milley. - - - Itim, I Give to my Grand Daughter Margret
Anderson a young Negroe named Demsey a horse named Snip a Saddle, & bridle
a Feather bed and furniture and Two Cows - - - Itim, I Give to my Grandson Alexr.
Anderson a you Negroe named Joe at my Wifes Decease  - - - - - - - -

Item I Leave to my loving Wife all my household Furniture at her Disposal only my
Desk I Leave to my Son James, - - the books that are in Copartnership betwixt John
Hodges and myself (Viz) Matthew Henry Annotations on the Bible & Testament I leave
to my Son Alexander. - - - Itim, I Leave to my Son David after he pays all my
Just Debts, and all the above Legaties paid the plantation I now live on only
that part above Reserved to my son James With all its appurtenances, the
Residue of my Negroes and all the Remaining part of my Estate -  only one of
my Stills to my Son James - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Item and lastly my Will is that my Two Sons Alexander and James Mebane
be Whole and Sole Executors of this my last Will and Testament  - -

In witness whereof I have hereunto Set to my hand and affixed my Seal
the Thirtyeth[sic] Day of Apriel[sic] in the year of our Lord one thousand Seven
hundred & Eightynine, - and in the thirteenth year of American Independance[sic]

Signed Sealed & acknowledged }
In the presence of --------  }
Thos. Mulholland } Jurat
Edward Willson   } Jurat                        Alexr. Mebane (seal)
William Wilson }

[Will Book Volume B, page 216]
                 216
In the name of God Amen I Alexander
Mebane of the county of Orange and State of North Carolina
being weak in body but of sound and perfect mind
and memory blessed be God for it, and calling to
mind the mortality of my body and knowing that
it is appointed for all men onc[e] to die. I theretofore
make and Ordain this my last will and Testament

I first and principally Give and recommend my
Soul into the hands of Almighty God that gave it
and my body I recommend to the earth to be buried
in a decent and christian manner (at the discretion
of my executors) nothing doubting but at the
General resurrection I shall receive the same
again by the mighty power of God, and as touching
such worldly estate wherewith it hath pleased God
to bless me within this life. I give demise and
dispose of in the following manner, (to wit) I Give
and bequeath to my loving wife a horse known by
the name of Sharp, a mare & colt four Cows all
the sheep on the plantation, two feather Beds and
furniture, and all my household furniture except
what will be hereafter mentioned, the Dwelling
house and Kitchen and Barn, the Negroes or Slaves
Tamer, Ben, Jean [orig: Jane], Caleb, Joe, Patience, her Son Joe
Nell & Tom, and all the profit arising from
them [orig: things] of the plantation, this is all the clear Land
as yet on said plantation during her Life.

Item I Give and bequeath unto my loving Children
besides what I have already Given them, in
manner following, (to wit) I Give to my Son
William five pounds Specie

[Will Book Volume B, page 217]
                 217
Item I Give to my Son Alexander Mulatto Tom.

Item I Give to my Son James, a Negro Boy named
Clark and fifty Acres of more[?] land to be laid off
adjoining the line I had Surveyed to him before.

Item I Give to my Son John a Mulatto boy named
Frank.

Item I Give to my Daughter Jennett Anderson
after my Wifes death a Mullatto[sic] Wench named
Nell.

Item I Give to my Daughter Ann Marrow
twenty pounds Specie to be paid out of my estate
within two years after my decease and after
my Wifes decease the Mullatto wench nam'd Patience

Item I Give to my Daughter Margaret Murdaugh
a Mullatto wench named Milley.

Item I Give to my Grand Daughter Margaret
Anderson a young Negroe named Demsey a
horse named Snip, a Saddle and bridle a
feather bed and furniture and two Cows

Item I Give to my Grand Son Alexander Anderson
a you Negro named Joe at my wifes Decease

Item I Give to my loving Wife all my household
furniture at her disposial[sic] except one [orig: only my] Desk I Give
to my Son James, the books that are in Copartnership
betwixt John Hodges and myself (Viz) Matthew
Henrys Annotations on the bible and Testament
I leave to my Son Alexander, Item I leave to my
Son David after he pays all my Just Debts and
all the above Legatees paid the plantation [orig: I now live] on
only what[oirg: that] part above Reserved to my son James

[Will Book Volume B, page 218]
                 218
with all its appurtenances, the residue of my
Negroes and all the remaining part of my Estate
only one of my stills to my Son James

Item and lastly my will is that my two Sons
Alexander and James Mebane be Whole & Sole
Executors of this my last will and Testament

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand
and [orig: affixed my] Seal the thirtieth day of April in the year
of our Lord one thousand Seven hundred and
eighty nine and in the thirteenth year of
American Independance[sic]

Signed Sealed & acknowledged }  Alexr. Mebane (seal)
In the presence of --------  }
Thos. Mulholland  }
Edward Wilson     } Jurat
William Wilson    }

Orange County February Court 1783
       The Execution of the last Will and Testament
of Alexander Mebane Senr. deceased was duly proved
in open court by the oaths of Thomas Muholland
and William Edwards[sic] two of the subscribing
witnesses thereto and ordered to be Recorded
                               Abner B. Bruce CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume B, pages 216-218
Recorded Feb 1783

Estate Papers comprise 41 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Mebane, Alexander (1797)".  These are intermixed with the papers of a testator by the same name, will dated 1795.  See that will for notes.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

