Will of Mary Cain - 16 Jul 1840

Know all men that I  Mary Cain of the County
of Orange and State of North Carolina, being
of sound mind and memory, and wishing
to make a disposition of my property dif-
ferent from that which the law would
make in case of my dying intestate do
make publish and declare this to be
my last will and testament in manner
and form following, viz.

     I give and devise to my two sisters
Elizabeth and Margaret Cain to[sic] whole of
my estate and property of Every Kind and
description, to them and the survivor of
them and the heirs executors and admin
istrators of the survivor of them. And
I do hereby appoint my said two sisters
Elizabeth and Margaret the execu-
trixes of this my last will and testa-
ment

         Signed, sealed and published on this
the 16       day of July     1840

Test.                           her
   Abner Lewis             Mary (+)Cain (seal)
   William Jackson Jurat       mark

[Will Book Volume G, page 5]
Know all men that I  Mary Cain of the County of
Orange and State of North Carolina being of
sound mind and memory, and wishing to make
a disposition of my property dif[f]erent from
that which the Law would make in case of
my dying intestate do make publish and
declare this to be my last will and testa
ment in manner and form following, viz.

   I give and devise to my two sisters
Elizabeth and Margaret Cain to[sic] whole of my
estate and property of every kind and dis
position[Note 1], to them and the survivor of them
and the thier[Note 2] executors and administrators
of the survivors of them and I do
hereby appoint my said two

[Will Book Volume G, page 6]
sisters Elizabeth and Margaret the
executors[Note 3] of this my last will and
testament
Signed sealed and published on this
the 16th day of July 1840
Test.                           her
   Abner Lewis             Mary (+)Cain (seal)
   William Jackson             mark

              Orange County November Term 1851
The foregoing last will and testament of
Mary Cain dec. was duly proved in open Court by the oath of William
Jackson on[e] of the subscribing witnesses thereto & ordered tobe recorded ---
at the same time Elizabeth Cain & Margaret Cain the Executrixes therein
named renounced their right to qualify - Whereupon John C. Douglas
was appoint Administrator with the will annexed & qualified accord
ingly - (see minutes)           Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 5-6
Recorded Nov 1851

Note 1: Original will says "description", copy says "disposition"

Note 2: Original will says "heirs", copy says "thier"

Note 3: Original will says "executrixes", copy says "executors"

Estate Papers comprise five pages and are found in a folder labeled "Cain, Mary (1852)"

Testator:
Mary Cain - daughter of James Cain who married Elizabeth McKinley
on 21 Dec 1781 in Orange County, North Carolina. James died about Apr 1834.

Legatees:
Margaret Cain - sister of testator, daughter of James Cain
Elizabeth - sister of testator, daughter of James Cain

[Estate Papers - Inventory 24 Feb 1852]
An Inventory of the Personal Property of Mary Cain decd.
which came into the hand of Jno. C. Douglas her administrator
will annexed on 24 February 1852

1 Negro woman about 35 years of age named Lydia
1   "   Girl   "    13  "    "   "   "    Edny
1   "   Boy    "    11  "    "   "   "    Jim
1   "   Boy    "     9  "    "   "   "    Hardy
1   "   Boy    "     6  "    "   "   "    Ned

One third Interest in negro woman Darkey & her
seven children together with their increase


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

