Will of Ellison Mangum - 7 Oct 1865

     In the name of God Amen
   I Ellison G. Mangum of Orange County
now in feeble health but by the blessing
God of perfect mind and memory do make
ordain and publish this my last will
and testament as follows To wit -

Item 1. I desire my body to be buried
in a decent and christian like manner
at the expense of my estate: and that all
my just debts paid -

Item 2. I Give devise and bequeath to
my son Addison ["C." x-out] Mangum and his Heirs
forever, the tract of land on which
he now resides in the County aforesaid,
known as the Nathaniel Harris tract,
containing 500 acres or thereabouts -

Item 3. I Give, devise and bequeath to
my son Adolphus W. Mangum and his
Heirs forever, the tract of land on which
I now reside in said County, known as
my family Homestead, containing two
hundred & forty eight acres: and another
tract adjoining the same, known as the
Dicey Mangum tract, containing about
Two hundred acres -

Item 4. I Give devise and bequeath to
my daughter Cornelia Davis and her
Heirs, for her sole, separate and exclusive
use - the tract of land on which she and
her husband Samuel Davis now reside
and known as the Adcock tract, contain-
-ing Forty acres more or less: and one
seventh part of my McCowen tract to
be laid off adjoining the same, all to be

[page 2]
held by her during her natural life and then
to her children - But the said Samuel
Davis has my obligation to make title to him
for the said Adcock tract, and some Forty
acres of the McCowen Tract described in
the said written obligation: and if he shall
elect to fulfill the said contract, and shall
pay my Executors for said land so as to
obtain title, then I devise and bequeath
to my said Daughter Cornelia, the monies
received for said land, and so much of
the McCowen Tract as added to the part
purchased by her husband as aforesaid
of that Tract, as shall make one seventh
part thereof: all to be held to her sole
separate and exclusive use during her
life, and at her death to her children
in fee simple -

Item 5. I give devise and bequeath to my
daughter Amanda F. Webb wife of Robert
F. Webb my tract of land known as
the Moize tract, containing about one
Hundred & Forty acres, for her sole
separate and exclusive use during her
life, and at her death to her children
in fee simple -

Item 6. I Give devise and bequeath to
my daughter Lucy E. Mangum and her
Heirs, my two adjoining tracts of land
known as the Buffalo Hill tract and
the Alfred Jones tract, containing in the
whole about two hundred & Forty
acres -

Item 7. I Give devise and bequeath

[page 3]
to my daughter Sally B. Lunsford wife
of William D. Lunsford and her Heirs, one
seventh part of my estate, as hereinafter
more fully explained -

Item 8. I Give devise and bequeath to
my grand daughters Cornelia Elisabeth
and Adah C. Laws, children of my
deceased daughter Caroline wife of
Thomas Laws one seventh part of my
estate in equal moieties: and if either
of them shall die before attaining the
age of Twenty one years or marriage her
moiety to go to the survivor: and in the
event of the death of the survivor
under that age and unmarried, the
whole to return to my estate and be
divided among my children, or their
representatives, as if my children survived-

Item 9. I will and direct that my
McCowen Tract of land excluding
the portion allowed to Cornelia Davis
as aforesaid be divided into six equal
shares, and of these I devise one, to each
of my living children above named
except the said Cornelia Davis, and
one to my grand daughters Cornela
E. & Adah C. Laws, and their Heirs, subject
to the limitations over to my children
in the event of their death under age and
unmarried as above provided -

Item 10. I direct no public sale of any
portion of my property - But I will and
direct, that as to all my lands not
herein before devised, and any articles

[page 4]
of personal property that my Executors may
deem it for the benefit of my estate to sell,
that they shall make sale thereof privately or
at their discretion publicly and bring the
proceeds into account with my estate -

Item 11. I direct, that my daughter Lucy shall
have such articles of my household furniture in the
division, as she may select, and after her,
my son Adolphus W. such as he may
select at valuation

Item 12. Designing to make my children and
my two grand children aforesaid as
representatives of their mother, all equal in
the provisions made for them in this will-
I request that the County Court of Orange
at the term next succeeding my death,
shall appoint three commissioners of said
County to access and value the several tracts of
land or articles of personal property herein
before devised and bequeathed: and each
devisee or Legatee shall be charged with
the valuation affixed in part of his or
her equal share of my estate: and shall
receive nothing more until the other
Legatees shall have received a like
amount -

Item 13. I will and direct that all
debts due me, and any residue of
my estate be collected in by my
Executors, and added to the general
fund so as to make an equal
division in value as aforesaid
among my children aforesaid and
grand children representing their

[page 5]
mother-

Item 14. Considering slavery as abolished
I direct that the bonds of my sons in
law or any members of my family
for Slaves received by them of me
shall be surrendered up -

Item 15th I nominate and appoint
my two sons Addison Mangum
and Adolphus W. Mangum
testamentary Guardians of my
grand daughters Cornelia E and
Adah C. Laws for the control and
management of their estate herein
devised and bequeathed to them -

    And lastly I renominate & appoint
my said two sons Executors of this
my last will & testament - hereby
revoking all wills by me heretofore
made -

Signed Sealed and
published by the
testator in presence       E. G. Mangum (seal)
of us this 7th day of
October 1865 -

W. A. Graham
B. C. Smith

[page 6]
          Codicil
   to the foregoing Will
I direct that Five acres of land of the
Moize tract be laid off so as to include
the store house and buildings in convenient
shape & be excepted out of the aforesaid
Moize Tract: and I devise the said
Five acres with the buildings thereon
to my said two sons Addison & Adolphus
W. Mangum and their Heirs -
October 7th 1865
   Witness-         E. G. Mangum Seal
   W. A. Graham
   B C Smith

Orange County Court February Term 1867
The foregoing last will & testament of Ellison G. Mangum deceased
was duly proved in open court
See minutes

[Will Book Volume G, page 509]
        In the name of God Amen
    I Ellison G Mangum of Orange County
now in feeble health but by the blessing God of perfect
mind and memory do make ordain and publish
This my last will and testament as follows
To wit

Item 1 I desire my body to be buried in a decent and
    Christian like manner at the expense of my
estate and that all my just debts ["be" x-out] paid

Item 2. I give devise and bequeath to my Son Addison
    Mangum and his heirs forever the Tract of land on
which he now resides in the County aforesaid known
as the Nathaniel Harris Tract containing 500. acres or
thereabouts

Item 3. I give devise and bequeath to my son Adolphus W.
    Mangum and his heirs forever the tract of land on
which I now reside in said County known as my
family Homestead containing two hundred & forty eight
acres: and another tract adjoining the same known as the
Dicey Mangum tract containing about two hundred acres

Item 4 I give devise and bequeath to my Daughter Cornelia
    Davis and her Heirs, for her Sole Separate and exclusive
use the tract of land on which She and her husband
Samuel Davis now reside and known as the Adcock
tract containing forty acres more or less and one Seventh
part of my McCowen tract to be laid off adjoining the
same all to be held by her during her natural life and
then to her children. But the said Samuel Davis has my
obligation to make title to him for the Said Adcock Tract
and some forty acres of the McCowen Tract described in
the Said written obligation and if he shall elect to
fulfill the Said contract and shall pay my Executors
for said land so as to obtain title then I devise and
bequeath to my Said Daughter Cornelia the monies
received for said land and so much of the McCowen
Tract as added to the part purchased by her husband
as aforesaid of that tract as shall make one seventh
part thereof all to be held to her sole separate and

[Will Book Volume G, page 508, follows 509]
exclusive use during her life, and at her death to
her children in fee simple

Item 5. I give devise and bequeath to my daughter
    Amanda F. Webb wife of Robt F. Webb my tract of land
known as the Moize tract containing about one hundred
& forty acres for her Sole Separate and exclusive use during
her life, and at her death to her children in fee simple

Item 6. I give devise and bequeath to my Daughter Lucy
    E. Mangum and her heirs my two adjoining tracts
of land known as the Buffalo Hill tract and the
Alfred Jones tract containing in the whole about two
hundred & forty acres

Item 7. I give devise and bequeath to my daughter Sally
    B. Lunsford [wife of William D. Lunsford]
    and her heirs one seventh part of my
estate as hereinafter more fully explained

Item 8 I give devise and bequeath to my grand daughters
    Cornelia Elisabeth and Ada C. Laws children of my
deceased daughter Caroline wife of Thomas Laws one
Seventh part of my estate in equal moieties and if
either of them shall die before attaining the age of
twenty one years or marriage her moiety to go to the
survivor and in the event of the death of the Survivor
under that age and unmarried, the whole to return to
my estate and be divided among my children or their
representatives, as if my children survived

Item 9 I will and direct that my McCowen Tract of
land excluding the portion allowed to Cornelia Davis
as aforesaid be divided into six equal shares
and of these I devise one to each of my living children
above named except the Said Cornelia Davis
and one to my grand daughters Cornelia E. &
Ada C. Laws, and their heirs subject to the
limitations over to my children in the event of
their death under age and unmarried as above
provided

Item 10. I direct no public sale of any portion of my
property. But I will and direct, that as to all my
lands not herein before devised and any

[Will Book Volume G, page 509 (second page numbered thus)]
Articles of personal property that my Executors
may deem it for the benefit of my estate to Sell
that they shall make Sale thereof privately or at
their discretion publicly and bring the proceeds
into account with my estate

Item 11. I direct, that my Daughter Lucy shall have
    such articles of my household furniture in the
division, as she may select and after her my son
Adolphus W. Such as he may select at valuation

Item 12. Designing to make my children and my two
    grand children aforesaid as representatives of
their mother all equal in the provision[s] made
for them in this will. I request that the County
Court of Orange at the Term next Succeeding my
death shall appoint three commissioners of said
County to access and value the Several tracts of land
or articles of personal property hereinbefore devised
and bequeathed and each devisee or legatee shall
shall[sic] be charged with the valuation affixed in part
of his or her equal share of my estate and shall receive
nothing more until the other legatees shall have
received a like amount

Item 13. I will and direct that all debts due me and
any residue of my estate be collected in by my
Executors and added to the general fund so as to
make an equal division in value as aforesaid
among my children aforesaid and grand children
representing their Mother

Item 14 Considering Slavery as abolished I direct that
the bonds of my sons in law or any members of
my family for Slaves received by them of me shall
be surrendered up

Item 15 I nominate and appoint my two sons Addison
Mangum and Adolphus W. Mangum testamentary
Guardians of my grand daughters Cornelia E
and Ada C. Laws for the control and manage=
ment of their Estate herein devised and
bequeathed to them

[Will Book Volume G, page 510? (number blotted)]
And lastly I renominate & appoint my said
two Sons Executors of this my last Will & Testament
hereby revoking all will[s] by me heretofore made

    Signed Sealed and
published by the testator
in presence of us this
7th day of October 1865
                               E. G. Mangum (seal)
W. A. Graham
B C. Smith

             Codicil to the foregoing Will
I direct that five acres of land of the Moize
tract be laid off so as to include the Store house
and buildings in convenient shape & be excepted
out of the aforesaid Moize Tract and I devise the
said five acres with the buildings thereon to my
said two sons Addison & Adolphus W. Mangum
and their heirs
October 7th 1865
Witness               E. G. Mangum (seal)
W A Graham
B. C Smith

Orange County Court February Term 1867
The foregoing last will & testament of Ellison G.
Mangum deceased was duly proved in open Court
See minutes

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 509-510
Recorded Feb 1867

Note that the will book page numbering is not sequential in this area of the will book and this will is recorded on four pages.

Estate Papers comprise 56 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Mangum, E G (1869)".  While there is the possibility of references to slaves in earlier documents of this estate, no slaves are listed.  The earliest reference in these was 1839, but no slaves. Addison Mangum was Executor.  There is some family history concerning the testator's family.  Because of the number of pages in this folder, it is likely that some of the family history found here is not included below.  If there is interest in this lineage, re-examining these estate papers may prove fruitful.

[Estate Papers - Petition of Lewis Roberts et al Fall 1867]

State of North Carolina  }  In Equity
    Orange County        }  Fall Term 1867

    To the Honorable the Judge of said Court

                The Petition of Lewis Roberts
and wife Eliza; Levin C. Ellis & wife Theresa;
Elijah Veasey; ______ Jarrett & wife Milly; Addison
Mangum Ex of E.G. Mangum, who purchased the
title and interest of Thomas Veasey, Benjamin Veasey
and Edward Veasey, and Elijah Veasy who purchased
the title and interest of Durell Magnum the son of
Jermima Veasey - and L. P. Veasey whose interest belongs to A. Magnum Executor

    Sheweth unto your Honor that Ezekial
Veasey died in the year 18____, leaving him
surviving the above named children, Eliza
Theresa Elijah Milly Thomas Benjamin Edward
and Jermima, his heirs at law, upon whom
his real estate descended, to be equally divided
between them as tenants in common, each
of them being entitled to one part thereof: - and
further the said Ezekial Veazey was seized & possessed
of a tract of land on Flat River, containing about
sixty three acres, adjoining the land of E. G. Mangum
and others.  Your petitioners desire partition of
the same according to their right and interests; but
owing to the size of the tract of land and the number
of parties interested, it is impossible that actual
partition can be made without injury to the
parties.  They therefore ask you Honor to order

[page 2]
a sale of said land on such terms as are
just and proper, and that the proceeds of the
sale may be dividied among them, according
to their respective right and interests in said land.
Your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray.
                           J. Turner[?] Jr.
                                        Soll.
Spring Term }
    1871    }   Final Decree

[begin large x-out]
    It appearing to the satisfaction of
the court that the original petition ( above set forth
as it should be ) should be amended in the particular
wherein said original petition differs from
that herein
[end large x-out]

    It appearing to the satisfaction of
the Court, from the report of the Clerk &
Master, that the land described in the above
petition has been sold to Bedford Vaughn, he
being the last and highest bidder, at the
sum of Five hundred & Twenty six dollars: and
it further appearing that the said purchase
money has been paid, & it further appearing
that the costs &c has been paid - It is therefore
orders, that the Clerk of the Superior Court make title to
the said Bedford Vaughn, to the land aforesaid:
that the Clerk & Master make distribution to
the parties entitled to the purchase money
said money to be divided as follows:

[page 3]
Lewis Roberts & wife will receive
________ dollars, it being one ["eighth" x-out] ninth part;

Levin Ellis & wife Theresa will receive
________ dollars, it being one
["eighth" x-out] ninth part; Elijah Veasey will receive
________ dollars, it being one
["eighth" x-out] ninth part; Elijah Veasey will also receive the
share of Durell Mangum, ________
dollars, it being one ["eighth" x-out] ninth part;

________ Jarrott & wife Milly will receive  ________
______ dollars, it being one ["eighth" x-out] ninth part; and

A. Mangum Ex of E. G. Mangum will receive
______ dollars, it being ["three" x-out] four
["eighths" x-out] ninths, the said Mangum having purchased
the share of Thomas Veasey, Benj Veasey and Edward
Veasey.  It is further ordered that the Clerk
["and Master" x-out] of the Superior Court receive five dollars for making the
deed to Bedford Vaughn; and that Tho? R Strayhorn
atty receive the sum of ten dollars - to be
paid out of the purchase money
                                  Awforged[?] Judge

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

