Will of Nancy Freedland - 14 Aug 1852

In the name of God Amen

            I Nancy Freeland of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina Being of sound mind
and memory But of feeble health, do make and pub
lish this my last will & Testament, hereby revoking and
making void all former wills by me at any time hereto
-fore made ---

Item first I direct all my just debts & funeral expenses
be paid as soon as possible out of the first monies that may
or shall come into the hands of my Executor from any
portion of my estate.

Item second. I direct my two negro slaves Aggy & Green
to be each valued by three disinterested neighbors, and each
slave to choose his and her master who is to take him or
her at the valuation of said men, and in the event
the chosen master refuses to take either of the slaves choosing
him for his or her Master. Then the said negroe or negroes
to be sold by my Executor according to law at such credit as
he may think the most advisable for the interest of the
Estate and the proceeds in either case to be Equally divi
ded amongst all of my children --

Item 3rd All other property of every denomination what
soever I may possess at my decease, I direct to be sold at a
credit of nine months - and the proceeds of the sale of
such property to be equally divided amongst all my chil-
dren - And I do hereby make and ordain my esteemed
neighbor David K. Blackwood Esqr. Executor of this my
last will and Testament In Witness whereof I the said Nancy
Freeland Testatrix have to this my will written set my hand and
mark and seal this 14th day of August Anno Domini 1851
                                        her
Signed seal[e]d & delivered       Nancy (4) Freeland (seal)
In the presence of us who have          mark
subscribed in the presence of each other
C. W. Johnston
Wm. S. Kirkland, Jurat

Recorded May 1852

[Will Book Volume G, page 21]
In the name of God Amen

    I Nancy Freeland of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina being of sound mind and memory
but of feeble health, do make and publish this my last
will & Testament, hereby revoking and making void all
former wills by me at any time heretofore made ~~

Item first I direct all my just debts & funeral expenses
be paid as soon as possible out of the first monies that
may or shall come into the hands of my Executor from
any portion of my estate ~~~

Item second. I direct my two negro slaves Aggy & Green
to be each valued by three disinterested neighbors, and each
slave to choose his and her master who is to take him
or her at the valuation of said men, and in the event
the chosen Master refuses to take either of the slaves choosing
him for his or her Master. Then the said negroe or negroes to be
sold by my Executor according to law at such
credit as he may think the most advisable for the interest
of the estate and the proceeds in either Case to be equ=
ally divided amongst all of my Children ~~~

    Item 3rd All other property of every denomination what=
soever I may possess at my decease, I direct to be sold
at a credit of nine months ~~ And the proceeds of the
sale of such property to be equally divided amongst
all my children, And I do hereby make and
ordain my esteemed neighbor David K. Blackwood
Esqr. Executor of this my last will and Test=
ament ~~~ In Witness whereof I the said Nancy
Freeland Testatrix have to this my will

[Will Book Volume G, page 22]
written set my hand and mark and seal this 14th
day of August Anno Domini 1851
                                    her
Signed, sealed & delivered    Nancy (4) Freeland (seal)
in the presence of us who have      mark
Subscribed in the presence of each
other C. W. Johnston
      Wm. S. Kirkland

                Orange County Court August Term 1852
The execution of the foregoing last will & testament of
Nancy Freeland decd. was duly proved in open Court
on the Oath of Wm. S. Kirkland on of the subscribing
witnesses thereto & ordered to be recorded

At the same time David K. Blackwood the Executor
therein named appeared & qualified accordingly
                   Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 21-22
Recorded Aug 1852

Estate Papers comprise 10 pages and are found in folder labeled "Freeland, Nancy (1852)".  Legatees listed as:
A. C. Murdock
Mrs Faucett
James Kimbre
Hugh McAdams
Charles Jorden

[Estate Papers - Estate Sale Ledger 15 Nov 1852]
1852 November 15th

    A List of property that came into
my hands from the Estate of Nancy =
Freeland Decd. and sold according to the
directions of her will.,
Names           Property            $
A. H. Ray       Negro Boy Green    700.00
Charles Jorden  Negro Woman Aggy   250.00
[sundry articles omitted]

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

