Will of Pomphrett Herndon - 13 Nov 1817

In the name of God Amen. The 13th day of November
One thousand Eight hundred and Seventeen - - -
I Pomphrett Herndon of the County of Orange and State
of North Carolina, being very sick and weak of body,
but of perfect mind and memory thanks be given
to God. Therefore calling unto mind the mortality of
my body knowing that it is appointed unto all men
once to die do make and ordain this my last Will
and Testament. That is to say, Principally and first of
all, I give and recommend my soul into the hands of
Almighty God that gave it, and my body I recommend
to the earth, to be buried in decent Christian burial, at the
discretion of my Executor nothing doubting but at the gene=
=ral resurrection I shall receive the same again by the
almighty Power of God. And as touching such world[l]y
Estate where with it hath pleased God to bless me in this
life, I give, demise, and dispose of the same in the
following manner and form ---

First, my wish and desire is that my dearly beloved Brother
James Herndon Jr Whom: I likewise constitute make and ordain
my sole Executor of this my last will and testament, and
he the said James Herndon Jr. Is to sell such property as he
sees cause for to pay my Debts,

Item, I give and bequeath to my dearly beloved father, the sum
of Five Dollars of lawful Money to be raised and levied out
of my Estate.

Also I give to my well-beloved sister Polly Gorman the sum

[page 2]
of Five Dollars, of Lawful money to be raised and levied out
of my Estate

Also. I give to my well beloved Sister Nancy Barbee The sum
of Five Dollars of lawful money, to be raised and
levied out of my Estate

Also. I give to my well beloved Sister Elizabeth Dickson
The sum of Five Dollars of lawful money, to be raised and
levied of my Estate -. Also. I give unto my Brother in law,
Macharine C. Herndon the sum of Five Shillings of lawful money
to be raised and levied out of my Estate - Also I give to my Sister
in law, Teressa N. Herndon the sum of Five Shillings to be
raised and levied out of my Estate -

Also. The remainder of my Estate to be Equally divided
between my dearly beloved Brother James Herndon Junior
and my dearly beloved Sister Sally Herndon ---------
and by them freely to be possessed and enjoyed -. And I
do hereby utterly, disallow, revoke, and disannul all and
every other former Testaments, wills, Legacies, bequests and
Executors, by me in any way before named, Willed and
bequeathed. Ratifying and confirming this and no other to
be my last will and testament. In Witness whereof I
have hereunto set my hand and seal the day and year
above written.

Signed Sealed, pronounced and           Pomphrett Herndon (seal)
declared in the presence of us the
        subscribers                     Exr qualified
    James Lynn
    Charles H Collier Jurat

[Will Book Volume D, page 515]
In the name of God Amen. The 13th day of November
one thousand eight hundred and Seventeen ~~ I Pomphrett
Herndon of the County of Orange and State of North Carolina
being very sick and weak of body, but of perfect Mind &
Memory, thanks be given to God. Therefore calling unto
mind the mortality of my body, knowing that it is appointed
unto all Men once to die, do make & ordain this my last
Will and Testament, that is to say, Principally and first
of all, I give and recommend my soul into the hands of
Almighty God that gave it, and my body I recommend

[Will Book Volume D, page 516]
to the earth, to be buried in decent christian burial at the
discretion of my Executor, nothing doubting but at the general
resurrection I shall receive the same again by the Almighty
power of God. And as touching such Worldly Estate where
=with it hath pleased God to bless me in this life, I give
Demise and Dispose of the same in the following Manner
and form. First, my wish and desire is that my dearly
beloved brother James Herndon Junr. whom I likewise con
=stitute make and ordain my sole Executor of this my last
Will and Testament, and he the said James Herndon jr. is
to sell such property as he sees cause for to pay my debts,

Item, I give and bequeath to my dearly beloved father the Sum
of five dollars of lawful Money to be raised [and levied] out of my estate

Also I give to my well beloved Sister Polly Gorman the sum [of]
five dollars lawful Money to be raised and levied out of
my estate, ~~~ Also I give to my well beloved Sister Nancy
Barbee the sum of five dollars of lawful Money, to be raised
and levied out of my Estate ~~~ Also I give to my well beloved
Sister Elizabeth Dickson the sum of five Dollars of lawful
Money to be raised and levied of my Estate ~~~~

Also I give unto my brother-in-law, Macharine C. Herndon
the sum of five Shillings of lawful Money to be raised & levied
out of my Estate ~~~ Also I give to my sister in Law, Teressa
N. Herndon the sum of five shillings to be raised & levied out
of my Estate ~~~ Also the remainder of my estate to be equally
divided between my dearly beloved brother James Herndon Jr.
and my dearly beloved Sister Sally Herndon, and by them
freely to be possessed and enjoyed ~~~ And I do hereby utterly
disallow, revoke and disannul all and every other former
Testaments, Wills, legacies, bequests and Executors by me in any
way before named, Willed and bequeathed, ratifying & confirming
this and no other to be my last Will and Testament. I[n] Witness
whereof I have hereunto set my hand and Seal the day and
year above written.
Signed Sealed pronounced and         Pomphrett Herndon (seal)
declared in the presence of the subscribers
    James Lynn
    Charles H Collier

[Will Book Volume D, page 517]
                         Orange County November Term 1817
The Execution of the foregoing last Will and Testament of
Pomphrett Herndon dec. was duly proved in Open Court by
the Oath of Charles H. Collier a subscribing witness thereto and
ordered to be recorded at the same time James Herndon
the Executor therein named qualified accordingly
                      Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume D, pages 515-517
Recorded Nov 1817

Estate Papers comprise five pages and are found in the folder labeled "Herndon, P (1817)". No family history found.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

