Will of John Neely - 26 Oct 1852

        In the name of God Amen!

I John Neely of the County of Orange and State
of North Carolina being in good health & of sound
mind but remembering the uncertainty of
life do hereby make this my last will and
testament revoking all other wills made
by me.

    First I give and devise to my beloved wife
Cynthia for the comfortable support of herself &
my children living with her & for their edu=
cation fifty dollars in money and the fol=
lowing property during her natural life,
namely, all my land except the house & lot
in Hillsborough all my negroes owned by
me at my death, 2 horses, 2 cows, 5 sheep,
1 sow & pigs, all her choice, the household &
kitchen furniture and household goods,
or so much thereof as she may choose to take,
one 2 horse waggon one carry all & harness
and all necessary plantation tools & uten=
sils: Also one years support out of the
crop stock & provisions on hand or growing
crop at my death

    Secondly I will & direct that my executors shall
sell all the rest of my property, the house & lot in Hills=
borough excepted on a credit of twelve months
and after paying all the debts and charges
against my estate, they shall add whatever
may remain of the sale money to the money
due to me at my death, & keep the whole at
interest until my youngest child becomes
of full age or marries, unless circumstan=
ces unforeseen shall require the interest
to be paid to my wife for herself & family

[page 2]
in which case the annual interest shall be
paid to her so often as the same shall be ne=
cessary.  And when the youngest child shall be
of full age of twenty one years or marry then
the whole of said fund shall be equally divided
between my six children and my grand children
by my daughter Nancy Watson the latter taking
one share only, But this division shall be upon
the same terms & restriction as are herein after
["divided" x-out] provided in the division of the rest of
My estate.

    At the death of my wife I give and devise
all the estate real & personal herein given to her
for life and all the rest and residue of my estate
of every kind whatsoever to all my children &
My grand children above named equally
to be divided among them, the said grand
children taking one share; but upon the fol=
lowing conditions and restrictions, namely
the share of my daughter Martha Mangum
both in the money above named and also
in the rest of my estate I give & devise to my
executors & their heirs for her sole & separate
use & benefit free from the control of her
husband William Mangum and of all liability
for his debts & contract, to be manage for
her according to their best discretion, & her
receipt shall be a full discharge to them.
Again to prevent a sale and separation
of my negroes in said division I give to
Louiza Laws negro woman Eliza, negro
Harriet to my daughter Lethe, Alexander
to my son Wesley and Charles to my daugh=
ter Elizabeth , and if there should be any

[page 3]
other child born to the woman Eliza in my life
I give the same to my daughter Lucy, and
if any of said negroes shall be more than a
full share of my estate then that share shall
refund to those of less value to make all
equal.  If my daughter Martha Mangum
shall die leaving her said husband surviving
her then at her death her share of my estate
shall go to her child or children. And in said division
I further give and devise to my grand children
Wesley, Lorenzo, Mary F. and Octavius H. Watson
the children of my deceased daughter Nancy Watson
the House and Lot in Hillsborough, which I pur=
chased of their father James S. Watson, at the
valuation of four hundred and sixty one
dollars.  But if at my death the said James
S. Watson shall be indebted to me or I shall be
bound as his surety then to save my other estate,
the said house & lot shall be sold for the same.
And my further meaning is that if the rest
of my children in the said division shall not
receive shares each of the value of four hun=
dred and sixty one dollars, that in that event
the said house and lot shall be sold and enough
of the price shall be taken therefrom to bring up the
other six shares to an equality provided however
not more than four hundred and sixty one
dollars shall be taken from the Watson children
for that purpose.

    And I hereby give to my executors full power
and authority to sell land as well as all other
property which may be necessary in order
to make an equal division according to my
will among my six children namely Louiza

[page 4]
Laws, Martha Mangum, Wesley, Lethe, Elizabeth &
Lucy & My grand Children Wesley, Lorenzo, Mary F.
and Octavius H. Watson.

    And I appoint my worthy friends Squire
D. Umstead and William Harris executors of this
my last will and testament

    Signed sealed and declared on this
the 26 day of Oct 1852

In presence of us              Jn Neeley (seal)

D. C. Parrish Jurat    }
                       }
Jno. Lipscomb  Jurat   }

[Codicil]

    I John Neeley of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina do hereby make
this Codicil to my Will executed on the
26th day of October 1852.  I do hereby revoke
all devises and bequests contained in said will
to my daughter Martha Mangum or her chil=
dren or to her husband Willis Mangum, having
since the making of the said Will paid Willis
Mangum more than her share of my estate.

    Since the making of said Will the negro
woman Eliza has had a child named Rachael
I hereby confirm the gift of said child Rachael
to my daughter Lucy as my will provides,
And if Eliza or any other of my negroes shall
have any other children before my death
I desire & will that they shall be retained by
some of my children in the division of my
property according to my will at valuation
and not sold, if it cany[? can] be avoided.

    In all things not altered by this codi=
cil I do hereby confirm & republished my said
Will,  And I do hereby publish & declare this
codicil to be a part of my will this the
6th day of January 1855

Signed sealed & published }     Jno Neely (seal)
in the presence of        }
   Hy. Whitted            }
   O. F. Long Jurat       }

[Will Book Volume G, page 120]
In the name of God Amen I John Neely of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina being in good health & of sound mind
but remembering the uncertainty of life do hereby make this my last
will and testament revoking all other wills made by me

    First I give and devise to my beloved wife Cynthia for the
comfortable support of herself & my children living with her
& for their education fifty dollars in money and the following
property dureing her natural life, namely all my land except
the house & lot in Hillsborough all my negroes owned by me at
my death 2 Horses 2 Cows 5 Sheep 1 Sow & pigs, all her choice
the household & Kitchen furniture and household goods or so
much thereof as she may choose to take one 2 horse waggon
one carryall & harness & all necessary plantation tools
& utensils Also one years support out of the crop Stock
& provisions on hand or growing crop at my death

Secondly I will & direct that my executors shall sell
all the rest of my property, the house & lot in Hillsborough
excepted on a credit of Twelve Months and after paying
all the debts and charges against my estate, they shall
add whatever may remain of the sale money to the money
due to me at my death & Keep the whole at interest
until my Youngest child becomes of full age or
marries, unless circumstances unforeseen shall require
the interest to be paid to my wife for herself & family
in which case the annual interest shall be paid to her so
often as the same shall be necessary, and when the youngest
child shall be of full age of Twenty one Years or marry
then the whole of said fund shall be equally divided between
my Six children and my grand children by my daughter
Nancy Watson the latter taKing one share only But this
division shall be upon the same terms & restriction as
are hereinafter provided in the division of the rest of
my estate.

    At the death of my wife I give and devise all the
estate real & personal herein given to her for life and all
the rest and residue of my estate of every Kind whatsoever
to all my children & my grand children above named
equally to be divided among them, the said grand children

[Will Book Volume G, page 121]
takeing one share but upon the following conditions and
restrictions namely the share of my daughter Martha
Mangum both in the money above named and also in the
rest of my estate I give & devise to my Executors & their heirs
for her sole & separate use & benefit free from the control of
her husband Willis Mangum and of all liability for his
debts & contract to be manage for her according to their
best discretion & her receipt shall be a full discharge to
them. Again to prevent a sale and separation of my
Negroes in said division I give to Louiza Laws Negro
Woman Eliza Negro Harriet to my daughter Lethe, Alexander
to my son Wesley and Charles to my daughter Elizabeth
and if there should be any other child born to the woman
Eliza in my life I give the same to my daughter Lucy
and if any of said Negroes shall be more than a full
share of my estate then that shall[orig: share] shall refund to those
of less value to make all equal. If my daughter Martha
Mangum shall die leaveing her said husband surviving
her then at her death her share of my estate shall go
to her child or children, And in said division I further
give and devise to my grand Children Wesley
Lorenzo, Mary F. and Octavias H Watson the children
of my deceased daughter Nancy Watson the House
and Lot in Hillsborough, which I purchased of their
father James S. Watson at the Valuation of four hundred
and Sixty one dollars. But if at my death the said James
S. Watson shall be indebted to me or I shall be bound
as his surety then to save my other estate, the said house
& lot shall be sold for the same And my further meaning
is that if the rest of my children in the said division
shall not receive shares each of the value of four hundred
and Sixty one dollars, that in that event the said house
and lot shall be sold and enough of the price shall be
taken therefrom to bring up the other six shares to an equality
provided however not more than four hundred and Sixty
one dollars shall be taKen from the Watson children
for that purpose

    And I hereby give to my Executors full power

[Will Book Volume G, page 122]
and authority to sell land as well as all other property
which may be necessary in order to make an equal division
according to my will among my Six children namely Louiza
Laws, Martha Mangum, Wesley, Lethe, Elizabeth & Lucy & my grand
Children Wesley, Lorenzo, Mary F. and Octavias H. Watson

    And I appoint my worthy friends Squire D. Umstead
and Williams[sic] Harris executors of this my last will and testament

    Signed sealed and declared on this the 26 day of
Octo 1852
In presence of us                  Jno Neeley (seal)
D. C. Parrish
Jno. Lipscomb

I John Neeley of the County of Orange and State of North
Carolina do hereby maKe this Codicil to my Will executed
on the 26th day of October 1852. I do hereby revoke all devises
and bequests contained in said will to my daughter Martha
Mangum or her children or to her husband Willis
Mangum having since the making of the said Will
paid Willis Mangum more than her share of my estate

    Since the making of said will the Negro Woman Eliza has had
a child named Rachael I hereby confirm the gift of said child Rachel
to my daughter Lucy as my will provides and if Eliza or any other of my
Negroes shall have any other children before my death I desire & will
that they shall be retained by some of my children in the division of
my property according to my will at valuation and not sold if it can
be avoided. In all things not altered by this codicil I
do hereby confirm & republished my said will, And I do hereby
publish & declare this codicil to be apart[sic] of my will this the 6th day of
January 1855
Signed Sealed & published                   Jno Neely (seal)
in the presence of    }
Hy. Whitted           }
O. F. Long

Orange County Court November Term 1855
The foregoing last will & Testament with the codicil thereunto annexed of John
Neely decd was proven in open Court by th oaths of D.C. Parrish, Jno Lipscomb & O F Long
three of the subscribing witnesses thereto & ordered to be recorded At the same time Squire D Umsted
one of the Executors therein named appeared in open Court and qualified by taKing
the oath prescribed by Law                   Test Geo Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 120-122
Recorded Nov 1855

Estate Papers comprise five pages and are found in a folder labeled "Neely, John (1855)".  No family history found.  Based on their absence in the inventory and estate sale, perhaps the slaves were all devised in the will and codicil.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

