Will of Harrison Parker - 17 May 1864

State of North Carolina }
     Orange County      }

   In the name of God Amen

   I Harrison Parker of the County of
Orange and State aforesaid being of
sound mind and memory but knowing
the uncertainty of life do make this my last
Will and testament in manner and form
Viz: my Will is that all my Just debts be
paid with my funeral Expences

1st I Give and bequeath to my Daughter
Clary E Parker one negro woman by the
name Ellen and her Daughter Martha
one Piana two Beds & furniture her choice
one of my horses on hand at my death

2d I Give to my son Dudly H Parker sixty six
acres of land where he now lives by his
accounting to the legatees for it at the
sum of five Dollars per acre also I
will him one hundred acres of land
exclusive,, lying on the north side of the Road

3d My Will is that all of my property both
real & personal except the Dr Eperson tract
of land Containing by estimation Eighty
three acres more or less to be divided as in
hereafter described

4th I Give my Daughter Emeline Harris
Wife of William Harris one Eighth part
of the Bare[? above] property

5th I Give to my son D H Parker one Eighth
of the above property

6th I Give to my Daughter Sarah A Russ

[page 2]
Wife of Charles E Russ one Eighth

7th I Give to my Daughter Margaret J Lyon
Wife of E Lyon one eighth of the same

8th I Give to my son J W Parker one Eighth of
said property

9th I Give to my Daughter Nancy M Holt
Wife of Dr E M Holt one Eighth of the
same property

10th I Give to my Daughter Clary E Parker
the Eighth part of said property

11th I Give to my five grand Children of
W D Parker decd. Viz Josephine Wife of
John W Roberts Mariah Parker Saphronia
Parker Nathaniel H Parker & Ann Parker
these five ligatees[sic] to have one eighth part
of the above property to be equally divided
between the five

12 I Give to my grand Children of Marcus Harris
one Eighth part of the above property to be equally
divided between Robert Harris Emeline
Harris & Nathaniel D Harris

13 I Give to Sarah Holensback the above
named tract of land know as the
Dr Epperson[sic] tract containing Eighty
three acres to be hers during he[r] life
time at he[r] death to be equally divided
among all the legatees as above pro
vided for in proportion to each
ones legacy

14 My will is my Executors hereinafter
mentioned shall sell all of my property
both real and personal except the

[page 3]
specified legacies named above & make
division in proportion as named above

I appoint D H Parker J W Parker &
Dr. E M Holt my Executors to this my
last will and testament this 17th of
May 1864

Signed & sealed in the }
presence of us         }  H Parker (seal)
D C Parish             }
E. G. Mangum           }

[Will Book Volume G, page 450]
State of North Carolina
          Orange County
            In the name of God Amen
I Harrison Parker of the County of Orange and
State aforesaid, being of sound mind and
memory but ["considering" x-out] Knowing the uncertainty
of life do make this my last Will and testament
in manner and form (Viz} My Will is that all my
Just debts be paid with my funeral Expences

1st I give and bequeath to my Daughter Clary E Parker
one negro woman by the name Ellen and
her Daughter Martha, one Piano Two beds & furniture
her choice one of my horses on hand at my death

2nd I give to my son Dudly H Parker Sixty Six acres
of land where he now lives by his accounting
to the legatees for it at the sum of Five Dollars Per
Acre Also I will him one hundred Acres of land
exclusive lying on the north side of the Road

3rd My Will is that all of my property both real & personal
except the Dr Epperson tract of land - of land - [sic]
Containing by estimation Eighty three acres more
or less to be divided as herein after discribed[sic]

4th I give my daughter Emeline Harris Wife of William
Harris one eighth part of the bare[? above] property

5th I Give to my Son D H Parker one Eighth of
the above property

6 I give to my daughter Sarah A Russ Wife of
Charles E Russ one Eighth

7 I give to my daughter Margaret J. Lyon wife
of E. Lyon one eighth of the same

8 I give to my Son J W Parker one eighth of
said property

9 I give to my daughter Nancy M Holt wife of
Dr E M Holt one eighth of the same property

10th I give to my daughter Clary E Parker the
eighth part of said property

11th I give to my five grand children
Children of of W D Parker Decd. Viz

[Will Book Volume G, page 451]
Josephine Wife of John W Roberts Mariah Parker
Saphronia Parker Nathaniel H Parker & Ann Parker
these five legatees to have one eighth part of the above
property to be equally divided between the five

12th I give to my grand Children of Marcus Harris
one Eighth part of the above property to be equally
divided between Robt H Harris Emeline Harris [See Note 1]
& Nathaniel D Harris

13 I give to Sarah Holesomback the above named
tract of land know as the Dr Epperson tract
Containing Eighty three acres to be hers during
her lifetime at her death to be equally divided
among all the legatees as above provided for in
proportion to each ones Legacy

14 My Will is my Executors herein after Mentioned
shall sell all of my Property both real & Personal
except the specified legacy's named above & make
division in proportion as named above

I Appoint D H Parker J W Parker & Dr. E M Holt
my Executors to this my last will and testament
this 17 of May 1864

    Signed & sealed in the presence
    of us
D C Parish                      H Parker (seal)
E. G. Mangum

Orange County Court Augt. Term 1864
The foregoing last will & Testament of H
Parker deceased was duly proven in
open Court according to law & ordered
to be recorded.

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 450-451
Recorded Aug 1864

Note 1: "Robt H Harris" in will book copy is "Robert Harris" in the loose will.

Estate Papers comprise 186 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Parker, Harrison (1864)".  The testator died before emancipation and his estate was settled in the years following emancipation.  The estate was heavily in debt.  The prices listed in the estate sale seem very high compared to other estate sales - perhaps due to devaluation of Confederate dollars?  Note that several of the slaves sold for large sums, but these were sold on a twelve month credit, and possibly in Confederate currency, etc. Despite the large sums involved, the estate was still in debt.  The land was sold to Addison Mangum, the largest creditor.

Holensback, AKA  Holsenback

E M Holt is Edwin M Holt.
J W Parker is Jesse W Parker

[Estate Papers - Estate Sale 26 Oct 1864]
        An Inventory & Sale Book
Containing a list of Article belonging to the Estate
of Harrison Parker Decd. & sold by his Executor,
Dr. E. M. Hold & J. W. Parker, on the 26th Oct Anno 1864
with the names of purchases & prices annexed

[sundry articles omitted]

J. W. Roberts    Nigro boy Anderson     160.00
J. W. Parker      " Girl, Charlotte     100.00
Wm. Harris        " Boy Lisha           200.00
D. H. Parker      " " Green            1000.00
Miss Clara Parker " " Wesley           2700.00
D. H. Parker      " " Jerry            2100.00
" " " "           " " Hubb             5000.00
E. M. Holt        " " Bill              500.00
"  "   "          " " George            500.00
Wm. Harris        " " Dan               430.00

[Estate Papers - Petition 2 Sep 1869]
State of North Carolina }
Orange County           } Superior Court

    To the Hon A W Young Judge of Said Court
    The petition of

Jesse W. Parker & Edwin M. Holt executors of
Harrison Parker deceased, Emiline B Harris & Wil=
liam Harris her husband, Sarah A Russ and Charles
E Russ her husband, Margaret J Lyon and Elka=
han Lyon her husband Nancy M Holt wife of
Edwin M Holt, Clarah E Robert and Andrew
J. Roberts her husband, and the children of William
D Parker decd. viz Josephine Roberts, & her husband
John W Robert, Maria L.[S?] Clark & her husband
William Clark, Nathaniel H. Parker, and Ann
Parker; also the children of Louisa Harris deceased
viz. Robert H. Harris, Nathaniel Harris, and
Emiline B. Harris.  Petitioners

                 Against

Dudley H Parker ["and" x-out] who is also one of
the executors of said Harrison Parker decd
and Sarah Holsenback.  Defendants,

    Respectfully Shows,
                       That Harrison Parker
late of Orange County, died in the
year 1864, having first made a last
will which was duly executed so as to
pass both his real and personal estates
which after his death was duly proved
in Orange County Court at August Term
1864 and is now then of record, a copy
of which accompanies this petition for the sake

[further legal wrangling omitted.  The family history in this
petition is found above]


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

