Will of Hannah Thompson - 28 Dec 1855

    I Hannah Thompson of the County
of Orange and State of North Carolina
do make and publish this as my last will
and testament, hereby revoking all other wills
made by me.

1. I give and bequeath to my sister Phoebe
Clancy five hundred dollars, and at the death
of my sister Fanny I give her my man Philip.

2 I give and devise to my sisters Phoebe and
Fanny all my interest in the home tract of land
where Fanny and myself now live, and also all
my interest in another small tract of land
containing about sixty acres lying on the
Chapel Hill Road adjoining Thomas Da=
vis and others.

3. I give to my sister Fanny Thompson Rosan=
nah, absolutely, and Philip during her life.
I also give & devise to her all the residue of
my property and estate money and effects of
every kind whatsoever, except my man John.

4. And I give and bequeath my man John to Fan=
ny during her life and after her death I give John
to my friend John W. Norwood in trust for the
following purposes. That is to say, he shall sell
John, finding for him a good home and if in
his judgment my nephew Walter Thompson shall
                   (over)

[page 2]
then have reformed his habits, and be in a si=
tuation to be really benefitted by the price of John
it shall be paid to him. Or the amount may be
invested for his benefit in some way and the
annual interest and such portion of the prin=
cipal from time to time paid to him, as my
trustee may deem proper. But I desire it to be dis=
tinctly understood that if his habits and manner
of life shall then be such that the price of
John would go to pay debts already imprudently
contracted or squandered upon dissipation he
is not to receive it; as I do not wish any
of my means to be wasted upon idleness and
dissipation.  This whole matter I leave to the
discretion of my said Trustee and if he shall
not think proper to pay the price of John to
Walter Thompson, then in that case I give the
same to my brother Richard Thompson.

5. I appoint my sister Fanny Thompson the exec=
utrix of my last will and testament.

    Witness my hand & Seal this 28th December
1855.
                                        her
Signed sealed and             }   Hannah (+) Thompson (seal)
published in the presence of, }          mark
J. Webb                       }
H. Norwood                    }

[page 3]
    I Hannah Thompson do hereby make this
Codicil, to my will on this sheet of paper written:
Namely, I revoke the bequest of my negro man
Philip, to my sister Fanny Thompson, and I give
and bequeath Philip to my sister Phebe Clancy.

    And I give and bequeath to John W. Nor=
wood, two hundred dollars, in trust, for Walter
A. Thompson, upon the same terms and condi=
tions which are attached to the gift of the negro
Man John to him; And if said Walter shall
not be entitled to receive said sum of two
hundred dollars according to the provisions
in my will referred to, then & in that case
I give the two hundred dollars to my brother
Richard Thompson.

    And I publish & declare this, to be a part
of my will and do hereby republish and declare
my said will with this alteration, to be my
last will and testament.

    Witness my hand & Seal this 7th May
1859.
Signed sealed & published          her
in the presence of          Hannah (+) Thompson (seal)
Thomas Webb                       mark
John Cheek

[Will Book Volume G, page 223]
I Hannah Thompson of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina do make and publish this as
my last will and testament hereby revoking
all other wills made by me

1 I give and bequeath to my sister Phebe Clancy
five hundred dollars. and at the death of
my Sister Fanny I give her my man Phillip

2 I give and devise to my sister[s] Phebe and Fanny
all my interest in the home tract of land where
Fanny and myself now live and also all my
interest in another small tract of land contain=
ing about sixty acres lying on the Chapel Hill
Road adjoining Thomas Davis and others

3 I give to my sister Fanny Thompson
Rosannah, absolutely and Philip during her life
I also give & devise to her all the residue of
my property and estate money and effects of
every kind whatsoever, except my man John

4 And I give and bequeath my man John
to Fanny during her life and after her
death I give John to my friend John W.
Norwood in trust for the following purposes
That is to say, he shall sell John finding
for him a good home and if in his

[Will Book Volume G, page 224]
judgment my nephew Walter Thompson
shall then have reformed his habits and be in
a situation to be really benefited by the price of
John it shall be paid to him. Or the amount
may be invested for his benefit in some way
and the annual interest and such portion of
the principal from time to time paid to
him, as my trustee may deem proper. But
I desire it to be distinctly understood that if
his habits and manner of life shall then be
such that the price of John would go to pay
debts already imprudently contracted or squan
dered upon dissipation he is not to receive it as I
do not wish any of my means to be wasted
upon idleness and dissipation This whole matter
I leave to the discretion of my said Trustee and
if he shall not think proper to pay the price
of John to Walter Thompson then in that case
I give the same to my brother Richard Thompson.

5 I appoint my sister Fanny Thompson the Execu=
trix of my last will and testament

    Witness my hand & Seal this 28th December 1855

Signed sealed and              }
published in the presence of   }        her
J. Webb                        } Hannah (X) Thompson (seal)
H. Norwood                     }         mark

I Hannah Thompson do hereby make this codicil
to my will on this sheet of paper written
namely, I revoke the bequest of my negro man
Philip, to my sister Fanny Thompson and I give
and bequeath Philip to my sister Phebe Clancy.
And I give and bequeath to John W. Norwood
two hundred dollars in trust for Walter A. Thompson
upon the same terms and conditions which
are attached to the gift of the negro man John
to him And if said Walter A Thompson
shall not be entitled to receive said sum of

[Will Book Volume G, page 225]
Two hundred dollars according to the provision
in my will refer[r]ed to, then in that case I give
the two Hundred dollars to my brother Richard
Thompson And I publish & declare this to be
a part of my will and do hereby republish
and declare my said will with this altera=
tion, to be my last will and testament
Witness my hand & Seal this 7th May 1859
Signed sealed & published
in the presence of          her
Thomas Webb          Hannah (+) Thompson (seal)
John Cheek                  mark

Orange County Court Augst. Term 1859
    The foregoing last will and Testament of Hannah
Thompson deceased with the codicil thereto annexed
was duly proved in open court by the oaths of Thomas
Webb and John Cheek subscribing witnesses thereto. See
minutes                        Test

[Estate Papers - Inventory Feb 1860]

    Inventory of the personal estate of Hannah
Thompson deceased, filed by her executrix
Fanny Thompson, at February Court 1860

1 Negro Man Name   Philip
1 Negro Man Name   John
1 Negro Woman Name Rosannah

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 223-225
Recorded Aug 1859

Estate Papers comprise five pages and are found in a folder labeled "Thompson, Hannah (1860)".


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

