Will of William Maris - 23 Jun 1864

I William Maris of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina being of Sound
mind and disposing memory do make
publish and declare This my last Will
and Testament in manner and form as
follows to wit,

1st I give and bequeath unto my daughter
Ellen Woods, The Sum of two hundred and
fifty dollars

2nd I give and bequeath unto my daughter
["the sum of two hundred" x-out] Sarah Taylor
the sum of Two hundred and fifty dollars.

3rd I give and bequeath unto my son
William Maris a Negro boy by name
Ned Said Negro to be valued by two
disinterested persons, and my son
William Maris to pay to my son Wilie
S Maris one Third of the Valuation
of said Negro, and also to pay an ad-
ditional one Third Valuation of Said
negro to May Susan Maris and Euphonsia
Holden Maris (daughter of Thomp-
son Maris decd) But if said boy Ned
is not willing to go to his young Master
William, Then he is to be sold and the
proceeds to be distributed as above
specified.

4th I give and bequeath to my son

[page 2]
John W Maris a negro boy by name
Bob, My Son John paying my son Wilie
fifty dollars

5th I give and bequeath to my son
James S. Maris one tract or parcel
of land Containing thirteen and one
half acres adjoining the land on
which the said James Maris now
lives.

6th I give and bequeath to my four
daughters Martha, Eliza, Emily and
Francis, The plantation on which I
live. They may sell the land and di-
vide the money, or one may sell to
another, but they must not divide
the land. I also give and bequeath
unto my daughters Martha, Eliza,
Emily, and Francis, Two negroes nam-
ed Aaron and Sarah, and also
the following (to wit) Joseph, Dina, Bet,
Sol: and Olly, and the increase of Dina,
Bet or Olly. If any of my daughters die
without issue, Their portion is to
be equally divided among the three
Survivors &c

I also give and bequeath to my daugh
ters Martha, Eliza, Emily and
Francis all my household and kitch

[page 3]
en furniture, farming and black-
smith tools, horses, cows, hogs, sheep,
waggons and geer growing crop grain
and forage on hand, bacon, lard, salt
leather on hand or hides in tan, loom
wheels and cards and also the bonds?
provided there should not be money
enough on hand to pay my debts and
the portions due my daughters Ellen
and Sarah, then so much of the prop-
erty willed to Martha, Eliza, Emily and
Francis as may be necessary must be sold
["as will be nessary to meet" x-out] to meet their
requirements.

Should there be a Surplus on hand
after meeting all my debts and the a-
bove mentioned legacies, it is to be di-
vided equally among all my children
and a child's part to be distributed
amongst the children of Thompson
Maris

8th I give to my grandson George Taylor
twenty dollars Lastly I constitute and
appoint my sons James and William
Maris and my daughter Emily J.
Maris Executors to this my last will
and testament hereby revoking all
other wills and testaments by me

[page 4]
made, in testimony of I have here-
unto set my hand and seal
This the 23rd day of June A.D. 1864
Signed Sealed and declared
by William Maris to be his last
will and testament
We in his presence     Wm Maris (seal)
and at his request
have witnessed the same
John Wilkinson
Saml W Hughes

[Will Book Volume G, page 447]
I William Marris of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina being of Sound Mind and disposing
memory do make publish and declare this my last will
and Testament in manner and form as follows to wit,

1st I give and bequeath unto my daughter Ellen Woods, The
Sum of two hundred and Fifty dollars

2nd I give and bequeath unto my daughter Sarah Taylor
the sum of Two hundred and Fifty dollars.

3rd I give and bequeath unto my son William Maris a Negro
boy by name Ned said Negro to be valued by two
disinterested persons, and my son William Marris to
pay to my son Wilie S Marris one Third of the Valuation
of said Negro and also to pay an additional one third
Valuation of said negro to May Susan Marris and
Euphonsia Holden Marris (daughter of Thompson
Marris deced). But if said boy Ned is not willing
to go to his young Master William Then he is to be
sold and the proceeds to be distributed as above
specified 4th I give and bequeath to my Son John
W Maris a negro boy by name Bob, My Son
John paying my son Wilie Fifty dollars

5th I give and bequeath to my son James S Maris one
tract or parcel of land Containing thirteen and one
half Acres adjoining the land on which the said
James S Maris now lives.

6th I give and bequeath to my four daughters Martha
Eliza, Emily and Frances the plantation
on which I live. They may sell the land
and divide the money or one may sell to
another, but they must not divide the land

I also give and bequeath unto my daughters
Martha Eliza Emily and Frances two negroes
named Aaron and Sarah and also the following
to wit Joseph Dina Bet, Sol and Olly and the
increase of Dina, Bet or Olly If any of my daughters
die without issue Their portion is to be equally
divided among the three Survivors &c

I also give and bequeath to my daughters

[Will Book Volume G, page 448]
Martha. Eliza Emily and Frances all my household
and kitchen furniture, farming and blacksmith tools
horses, cows, hogs, sheep, wagons and geer growing
crop grain, and forage on hand bacon lard salt
leather on hand or hides in tan loom wheels and
cards and also the[?] - provided there should not
be money enough on hand to pay my debts and
the portions due my daughters Ellen and Sarah; then
so much of the property willed to Martha Eliza Emily
and Frances as may be necessary must be sold to meet
their requirements.  Should there be a Surplus on hand
after meeting all my debts and the above Mentioned
legacies, it is to be divided equally among all my children
and a childs part to be distributed amongst the children
of Thomson Maris

8th I give to my grandson Geo Taylor twenty dollars

Lastly I constitute and appoint my sons James and
William Marris and my daughter Emily J Maris
Executor[sic] to this my last will and testament hereby
revoking all other wills and testaments by me
made In testimony of I have hereunto set my hand
and seal This the 23rd day of June AD 1864

Signed Sealed and declared by William Marris to be
his last will and testament

We in his presence and at his
request have witnessed the same
John Wilkinson    Wm Maris (seal)
Saml W Hughes

    Orange County Court Augt Term 1864
The foregoing last will and Testament
of Wm Maris deced was duely proved in
open Court according to law and
ordered to be recorded.

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 447-448
Recorded Aug 1864

Original loose will is badly faded but legible.

Surname consistently "Maris" in original, but will book copy has both "Maris" and "Marris", and is consistently "Maris" in the Estate Papers, so it appears that the preponderance of the evidence indicates that this should be "Maris"

Estate papers comprise 72 pages and are found in folder labeled "Maris, William (1866)".  Names found: Martha A. Maris, Eliza K. Maris, Emily J. Maris, Euphrasia H. Maris, James L. Maris.  Francis is mentioned as "Fanny E." and Francis Jones.

There are some transactions and mentions of Confederate money, and some, post-war are at "scale" - perhaps discounted exchange rates?

Martha F. McDade and Josiah A. McDade inherited of twelve dollars and fifty cents from the estate of their "grandfather".

Mary S. Maris, Rebecca D. Maris indicated as grandchildren of the testator.

There are several listings for the hire of the slaves Ned and Bob.  If any researchers are focused on these lineages, there is more information in these Estate Papers.

[Estate Papers - Inventory about 1864]
An Inventory
[x-out] of property belonging to the estate of
William Maris, dec one tract of land containing four
hundred sixty six and three fourth's acer's of land ["A" x-out]
Another tract contain[in]g thirteen and a half acer's

Slaves belenging[sic] to the estate

    Aaren      60 years old
    Sarah      50
    Ned        30
    Bob        21
    Joe        18
    Diner      16
    Bet        14
    Sol        11
    Olly        1

[sundry articles omitted]

[Estate Papers - Receipt for Slave 29 Nov 1870]
Received of James L and Emily J Maris Exr of
my grand Father William Mares Deceased seven
Dollar for the hire of Ned Nov the 29th 1870

[Note: these services likely occurred prior to emancipation, this date of 1870 notwithstanding]

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

