Will of Jacob Cantrell - 6 Jul 1782

In the name of God Amen; I Jacob Cantrell of the County of Orange and
province of North Carolina, being in a low state of health, but of perfect sense and
memory thanks be to Almighty God for the same, But Calling to mind the mortality of my
body, and knowing that it is appointed for all men once to die, do make and ordain this my
last will and testament; that is to say principally and first of all, I give and recommend
my soul into the hand of Almighty God that gave it, and my body I recommend to the Earth,
to be buried in decent Christian burial, at the discretion of my Executors: Nothing doubting but
at the General Resurrection I shall receive the same again, by the mighty power of God,
and as touching such worldly Estate wherewith it has pleased God to bless me in this life:
I give, demise, and dispose of the same in the following manner and form.

    First I Give and Bequeath to my Eldest Daughter Martha Cantrell One Brown mare three
year old known by the name of Bonney, one womans saddle, one Feather bed and furniture,
and likewise one Cow and Calf, to her and her heirs forever. . . . . . . .

    Also, I Give to my Daughter Jane Cantrell one horse and womans saddle worth fifteen pound old trade
one feather Bed and furniture, and likewise one Cow and Calf, to her and her heirs forever.

    Also I Give to my daughter Hannah Cantrell one horse and womans saddle worth
fifteen pound old trade, one feather bed and furniture, and likewise one Cow and Calf to
her and her heirs forever. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Also I Give to my daughter Sarah Cantrell one horse and womans saddle worth fifteen
pound old trade; one feather Bed and furniture and likewise one Cow and Calf, to her and her
heirs forever. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Also I Give to my daughter Susana Cantrell, one horse and womans saddle worth
fifteen pound old trade, one feather Bed and Furniture, and likewise one Cow and Calf to her and
her heirs forever. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Imprimus I lend to my well Beloved Wife Mary Cantrell, During her Widowhood, the Plantation
whereon I now live, with all the Land thereunto Belonging, and likewise my three Negroes
(viz) Sam, Cate, and Billy, and likewise all the rest of my Estate be it of what
kind or Quallity soever, and at her Death if she dies my widow, that I leave that part
of my Estate so lent to be Equally Divided Between my three Sons (to Witt) Zebedee
Cantrell, Thomas Cantrell, and Joseph Cantrell, But if in Case my Widow should
inter marry, my Will and Desire is that, that part of my Estate so lent should be
appraised by two persons Chose by my Executors, whom I shall hereafter appoint and if
my widow and the person she intermarrys with will give Bond with sufficient security
for the sum of money that arises from the appraisement of that part of my Estate, to my
three Sons before named to be paid at the Disease[sic] of my wife that it shall Continue
in their hands if they Refuse to give such Bond and security, my Desire is that
at my widows inter marriage that part of my Estate which is Lent to her be taken
out of her hands and Divided Equally between my three sons before named -

Lastly, I Appoint Joseph Cantrell and my wife, Mary Cantrell, Whole and sole Executors
of this my last will and Testament revoking and Disannulling all wills by me heretofore
made declaring this to be my last will and Testament. In Witness whereof I do here
unto set my hand and seal the sixth day of July in the year of Our Lord Christ
one thousand seven hundred and Eighty two

Signd Seald publishd and Declard in presents of us
Test                                                   Jacob Cantrell (seal)
Jno. Henslee          }
       her            }
Rachel (X) Robinson   } Jurats
       mark           }

[Will Book Volume B, page 102]
In the name of God Amen I Jacob Cantrell
of the County of Orange and Province of North Carolina
being in a low State of Health but of Perfect sense and
memory thanks be to Almighty God for the same but calling
to mind the mortality of my body and knowing that it is
appointed for all men once to die do make and ordain
this my last Will and Testament, that is to say

Principally, and first of all, I give and recommend
my Soul into the hand of Almighty God that gave it
and my body I recommend to the Earth to be buried
in decent Christian burial at the discretion of
my Executors. Nothing doubting but at the general [resurrection]
I shall receive the same again by the Mighty power of
God, and as touching such worldly Estate wherewith
it has pleased God to bless me in this life. I give
demise and dispose of the same in the following manner
and form. first I give and bequeath to my eldest
Daughter Martha Cantril one brown mare three year
old known by the name of Bonney, one Womans Saddle one
feather Bed and furniture and likewise one Cow & Calf
to her her Heirs and assigns forever, Also, I give and
bequeath to my Daughter Jane Cantril, one horse and
Womans Saddle worth fifteen pounds old trade one
feather Bed and furniture and likewise one Cow &
Calf to her and her Heirs forever. Also I give to my
Daughter Hannah Cantril one Horse & Woma[n]s Saddle
worth fifteen pounds old trade, one feather Bed &
furniture and likewise one Cow & Calf to her & her heirs forever

[Will Book Volume B, page 103]
Also, I give to my Daughter Sarah Cantril one
Horse & Womans Saddle worth fifteen pounds old
trade one feather Bed and furniture and likewise
one Cow and Calf to her and her Heirs forever . . .
Also I give to my Daughter Susannah Cantril, one
Horse and Womans Saddle worth fifteen pounds old
trade one feather Bed and furniture and likewise
one Cow and Calf to her and her heirs forever . . . .

Imprimus I lend to my well beloved Wife Mary
Cantril during her Widowhood the Plantation
whereon I now live with all the Land thereunto belong=
=ing and likewise my three Negroes (viz) Sam Cate
and Billey and likewise all the rest of my Estate
be it of what kind or quality soever, and at her
Death if she dies my Widow that I leave that part
of my Estate so lent to be equally divide[d] Between
my three Sons Zebedee Cantril, Thomas Cantril &
Joseph Cantril but if in case my Widow should
intermarry my Will and desire is that that part of
my Estate so lent should be appraised by two persons
Chose by my Executors, whom I shall hereafter
appointe, and if my Widow and the person
she entermarries [with] will give Bond with
sufficient Security for the Sum of Money that
arises from the appraisment of that part of my
estate to my three sons before named to be paid
at the Decease of my wife that it shall continue
in their hands if they refuse to give such
Bond & Security my Desire is that, at my
Widows intermarriage that that part of

[Will Book Volume B, page 104]
my Estate which is Lent to her be taken out
of her hands and divided equally between
my three sons before named. Lastly I appoint
Joseph Cantril & my Wife, Mary Cantril my
Whole and Sole Executors of this my last will
and Testament revoking and disannulling all
Wills by me heretofore made declaring this
to be my last Will and Testament. In witness
whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
Seal the Sixth day of July in the year of our
Lord Christ One thousand Seven hundred &
Eighty two, Signed Sealed published and
declared in presence of us
Teste               }     Jacob Cantrell (seal)
John Henslee        }
her                 }
Rachel (+) Robinson } Jurat
       mark         }

State of North Carolina }
Hillsborough District   }   October Term 1790
                  The Last Will and Testament of Jacob
Cantrill deceased was proved in open Court by the Oaths
of John Hensley & Rachel Robinson the two subscribing
witnesses thereto, and on motion Ordered to be Admitted to
probate in the County Court of Orange
                               Attest A Tatom Clk

Mr Cantrils Will was proved at the last superior Court and
it was the Opinion of the Judges that the Executors should
Qualify in the County Court and take out Letters Testamentory

[Estate Papers - Inventory 16 Feb 1791]

North Carolina }
Orange County  } February ye 16th 1791

An Inventory of the Estate of Jacob Cantrell Decd.
                 To Witt

442 Acres of Land, Three Negroes, Three head of Horses
[sundry articles omitted]

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume B, pages 102-104
Recorded Oct 1790

Estate Papers comprise 19 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Cantrill, Jacob (1794)".  No family history found.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

