Will of Julius Howard - 25 Dec 1863

In the name of God Amen.
I Julius Howard of the State North Carolina
and County Orange a farmer by occupation
being in feeble health and of a sound and
disposing mind an[d] memmory[sic] calling to
mind the frailty and uncertainty of
human life and Being desirous of settling
of my worldly affairs and directing how
the estate with which it has pleased
God to bless me shall be disposed
of after my decease while I have strength
and capacity to do so.  First I commend
my immortal being to Him who gave it
and my body to the earth to be buried
in decency. as to my Worldly Estate and
all the property real or personal or mixed
of which I shall die seized and possessed or
to which I shall be entitled at the time of my
decease, I devise bequeath and dispose thereof in the
following manner. viz.

First my will that all my just debts and
funeral charges shall by my Executor her[e]in
after named be paid out of my estate, as
soon after my decease as shall by him
be found convenient.  Item first my will is
that my beloved and affectionate wife
Elisabeth A. Howard shall have and hold
my plantation during her natural life
for her support and maintaince[sic] with every
thing appertaining thereunto a[d]joining of
the Lands of Thomas J. Cates H Sykes and others
containing two hundred and forty six acres more
or less to have and to hold with my houses
and all rents issues income that may arise

[page 2]
which my beloved wife Elisabeth A Howard
is to have and to hold during her natural
life for her support and of my children
6 in number and while they Remain with
her and named as follows William A. Howard
Charlse[sic] M. Howard, John A.T Howard
Sofrony E. Howard George S Howard and
Lucy C Howard which is my desire that my
be loved wife Elisabeth shall school them best
she can out of my property to give them
Equal Schooling and for the further
maintainance of my belovad[sic] wife Elisabeth
A Howard I give unto her all of my
Stock 1 horse and cows hogs and sheep
and my waggon with all my farming tools
and mechanic tools with all of my house
hold and kitchen furniture and all
of my personal property wheat corn
oats and every thing to hold during
her natural life and if there is any
of the above named property that my
widow wants to dispose of for the benefit
of the family she can do so with the
aid of my executors to the highest bidder
and my will is next after the death of
my widow my plantation shall be equelly[sic]
divided between my four named sons
William A. Howard, Charles[sic] M. Howard
Jonh[sic] A. T. Howard George S. Howard not
in number of acres but according to valuation
and that my four above named sons viz
William A. Howard, Charles M. Howard
John[sic] A. T. Howard George [S.] Howard shall pay
over to my two daughters Sofroney E. Howard
and Lucy Caroline Howard amounts to Each

[page 3]
In money to make them Equal in land
so that all will be Equal in amount and
at the deceed[sic] of my be loved wife my
Executors shall sell all of the property that
Remains at her death to the Highest bidder
at publice[sic] sale and afters[sic] all expenses
is paid the Remainder Shall be Equally
divided between my six children vis
William A Howard, Charles M. Howard
John A. T. Howard Sofroney E Howard
George S. Howard  Lucy C. Howard
I appoint and constitute Thomas J. Cates
my whole and sol Ex[ec]utor of this my last
will and testament and I do her[e]by Revoke
utterly all former bequest[s] and wills
confirming this and no others being my
last will and Testament It being in the
Yeare of Our Lord one Thousand Eight-
hundred & Sixty three Dec 25th 1863
December twentififth

In testimony I Julius Howard have set my hand
and signed my name and affixed my
Seal day and date above written
Test
Ephraim Cates     Julius Howard (seal)
James W. Durham

[Will Book Volume G, page 524]
In the name of God Amen.

I Julious Howard of the State North Carolina
and County Orange a farmer by occupation
being in feeble health and of a sound and disposing
mind and memory cal[l]ing to mind the frailty
and uncertainty of human life and being desirous
of set[t]ling of my worldly affaires[sic] and directing how
the estate with which it has pleased God to bless me
shall be disposed of after my decease while I have
strength and capacity to do so.

First I Commend my immortal being to him who
gave it and my body to the earth to be buried in
decency. As to my Worldly Estate and all the property
real or personal or mixed of which I shall die Seized
and possessed or to which I shall be entitled at the
time of my decease, I devise bequeath and dispose
thereof in the following manner. Viz:

First my will that all my Just debts and funeral charges
Shall by my Executor herein after named be paid
out of my estate, as soon after my decease as shall
by him be found convenient. Item first, my
will is that my beloved and affectionate wife
Elisabeth A Howard shall have and hold
my plantation during her natural life for
her support and maintanance[sic] with every thing
appertaining thereunto adjoining of the lands
of Thomas J. Cates H Sykes and others containing
two hundred and forty 5 Acres more or less
to have and to hold with my house[s] and all

[Will Book Volume G, page 525]
rents Issues income that may arise which my
beloved wife Elizabeth A Howard is to have and
to hold during her natural life for her Support and
of my children 6 in number and while they remain
with her and named as follows William A Howard
Charles M Howard, John A T Howard Sofrony E
Howard George S Howard and Lucy C Howard
which is my desire that my be loved wife Elizabeth
Shall School them best she can out of my property
to give them equal Schooling and for the
further mentainence[sic] of my beloved wife Elizabeth
A Howard I give unto her all of my Stock 1
horse and cows hogs and sheep and my waggon
with all my farming tools and Machanic tools
with all of my house hold and Kitchen furniture
and all of my personal property wheat corn
oats and every thing to hold during her natural
life and if there is any of the above named
property that my widow wants to dispose of for
the benefit of the family she can do so with
the aid of my executor to the highest bidder
and my will is next after the death of my
widow my plantation shall be eaqually[sic]
divided between my four named sons
William A Howard Charles M. Howard
Jonh[sic] A T Howard George S Howard, not in
number of acres but according to Valuation
and that my four above named boys[orig: sons] viz
William A Howard Charles M Howard John
A T Howard George Howard shall pay
[x-out] over to my two daughters Sofroney E
Howard and Lucy Caroline Howard
amounts to each - In money to make them
eauqual[sic] in land so that all will be eaqual in
amount and at the decease of my beloved
wife my executor shall sell all of the property
that remains at her death to the highest
bidder at public Sale and after all

[Will Book Volume G, page 526]
expenses is paid the remainder Shall be equally
divided between my six children viz: William A
Howard Charles M Howard John A T Howard
Sofroney E Howard George S. Howard Lucy C
Howard I appoint and constitute Thomas
J Cates my whole and sol executor of this
my last will and testament and I do hereby
revoke utterly all former bequest[s] and wills
Confirming this and no others being my last
will and testament, it being in the Year of
our Lord one thousand Eight hundred &
Sixty three Dec 25th 1863
December twenty fifth
In testimony I Julious Howard have set
my hand and signed my [x-out] name and
affixed my Seal day and date above written

Test                    Julious Howard (seal)
Ephraim Cates
James W. Durham

Orange County Court Augt Term 1867
The exeuction of the foregoing last will and
testament of Julious Howard deceased
was duely proved in open Court,
            See Minutes,
                     Test Geo Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, page 524
Recorded Aug 1867

Estate Papers comprise 33 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Howard, Julius (1867)".  Estate sale was held 18 Sep 1867.  Sofronia's married name was Minnis. Charles M. Howard went by the name of Manly Howard.   Some of these papers span to the year 1908, where it appears that only George S. Sofronia and Manly are complainants - perhaps last surviving legatees?



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

