Will of Robert Scott - 5 Sep 1780

In the Name of God, Amen

I Robert Scott of the County of Orange and State of North
Carolinia[sic], being now in the County of Culpeper & State of Virginia
weak in Body but of a good sound mind and memmory, Thanks be to
the Blessed Lord for the same, Do make and ordain this my last Will &
Testament in manner & form following

I Recommend my soul into the hands of the Almighty God,

Itim I give and bequeath unto my Dearly beloved wife Mary Scott the Planta=
=tion whereon she now lives ["together" x-out] and two hundred Acres of Land
During her Natural life likewise all my household furniture & Stock
of horses Cattle Sheep & hogs Durining[sic] her Natural life,

Item I give and bequeat[h] unto my beloved Children Jesse Scott, William
Scott, Vaughn Scott, Molley Scott, John Scott, Harry Scott, Richard
Scott five hundred & fifty acres of Land to be sold & the money Equally
Divided among them when they Come of Age or Marries
also my will & Desire is that after the Decease of my beloved wife
Mary Scott the Land where Now she lives & all my Personal
Estate shall be sold & the money equally Divided among my Child
=ren above mentioned

I Constitute appoint and ordain my beloved wife Mary
Scott and Harmon Viscrarser Exrs of this my Last Will &
Testament  In witness whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and Seal this
Septr. the 5th 1780                  his
                              Robert (Ro) Scott (seal)
Rawley Cobin   Jrt.                  mark
Wm Roberts
                Widow quallified as Executrix

At a Court held for Culpeper County the 20th Novr. 1780

The Last Will and Testament of Robert Scott deceased
was exhibited to the Court and partly proved by the
Oath of William Roberts Witness thereto & Ordered
to be Certified
                           Test
                                 John Jameson C C

Orange County November Court 1784
The within Will of Robt. Scott was duly
prod in open Court by the Oath of Rawley
Corbin a Subscribing witness thereto and
Ordered to be Recorded
                        Teste
                          J. J. Bonham CCC

[Will Book Volume A, page 314]
In the Name of God, Amen.

I Robert Scott of the County of Orange and State of North
Carolina being now in the County of Culpeper & State of
Virginia.   Weak in Body but of a good sound mind and
memory thenks[sic] be to the blessed Lord for the same, Do make
and Ordaine this my last Will and Testament in manner
and form following.              I recommend my soul into
the hands of the Almighty God.     Item, I give and bequeath
unto my dearly beloved wife Mary Scott, the Plantation whereon
she now lives, and two hundred Acres of Land during her
natural life, likewise all my Household furniture, and
Stock of Horses, Cattle, Sheep and Hoggs during her
natural life,     Item I give and bequeath unto my
beloved Children, Jesse Scott, William Scott, Vaughn
Scott, Molley Scott, John Scott, Harry Scott, Richard Scott
Five hundred & fifty Acres of Land to be sold and the
Money equally divided among them, when they come of
Age or Marries.   Also my will and desire is, that
after the decease of my beloved wife Mary Scott
the Land where now she lives, and all my personal estate
shall be sold, and the money equally divided among
my children above mentioned.       I Constitute
appoint and Ordaine my beloved Wife Mary Scott &
Harmon Viscrarser Exrs. of this my last Will and Testament
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and Seal
this September the 5th 1780            his
Rawlye Corbin }                 Robert (Ro) Scott (seal)
Wm Roberts    }                        mark

[Will Book Volume A, page 315]
Orange Couty November Term 1784
The executin of the within Ill of Robert Scott Decd.
was duly prov'd in open Court by the Oath of Rawley Corbin
one of the Subscribing witnesses thereto and Ordered to be
Recorded,                     Test
                                 J. Benton C.C.

At a Court held for Culpeper County the 20th November
1780 The last Will and Testament of Robert Scott Decd.
was exhibited to the Court and partly prov'd by the Oath
of William Roberts a Witness thereto and Ordere to be
Certified.             Test
                             John Jameson C.C.

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume A, pages 314-315
Recorded Nov 1784

"Viscrarser" ???  Possibly Vickerson?

Estate Papers comprise five pages and are found in a folder named "Scott, Robert (1784)". No family history found.

Dated 5 September 1780, proved in Orange Co., N.C. Nov. 1784 by Rawley Corbin

Proved in Culpeper Co., Va. 20 Nov 1780 by William Roberts.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

