Will of Margaret James Hargrave - 7 Apr 1863

        In the name of God! Amen.

I Margaret James Hargrave of Orange county
and State of North Carolina being sick and
weak of body, but of Sound mind memory
and understanding and considering the certainty
of death and the uncertainty of the time thereof;
and to the end that I may be the better prepared to
leave this world whenever it shall please God to
call me hence, do, therefore make and declare
this my list[sic] will and testament in manner
and form following that is to say

    First and principally I commit my soul into the
hands of my Creator who gave it; and my body to the
earth to be interred at the plantation by the side
of my late husband Jesse Hargrave.

And also such worldly estate where with it hath pleased
God to intrust me I dispose of the same as followeth.

    Item first: Whereas the house and lot on which
I now reside in the village of Chapel Hill was devised to me
by my late husband Jesse Hargrave for and during my
natural life with remainder to my daughter Mary V. Hargrave
in fee and I have since the death of my said husband
placed improvements on said lot valued at about twenty
five hundred dollars. I therefore give to my sons Robert W.
Hargrave and William F. Hargrave respectively a legacy

[page 2]
of twenty five hundred dollars to each of them in order
to equalize their shares with that of my daughter above
mentioned.

item Second: I give and devise to my son Robert W Hargrave
my mountain tract of land being the same which came
["and de" x-out] to me as my part of the real estate of my father
William Barbee.

item third: I give and bequeath to my daughter Mary
V. Hargrave my negro woman Sue aged about six
teen and her child about two years old.

Item fourth: I give to my sons William F. and Robert
W. Hargrave my two large iron pots - one to each of
them respectively.

Item fifth I give and bequeath to my daughter
Mary V. Hargrave all my parlor furniture consisting
of piana melodean sofas chairs pictures books
carpat[sic] and other articles and asto all the furniture
with which my dwelling house is furnished such as
beds tables washstands chairs carpets bureaus books
my will is that it be equally divided between my three
children Mary V. Hargrave William F. Hargrave and
Robert W. Hargrave and I do hereby authorize and empower
my executor herein after named to divide the aforesaid
house furniture between my three said children according
to his best judgment and as nearly equal as he may be
able.

[page 3]

Item sixth: I give and bequeath to my daughter
Mary V. Hargrave my pair of carriage horses, and
also food for the said horses for one year next after
my death. And also my carriage and harness.

Item seventh: I do hereby authorize and empower
my executor herein after named to sell on such terms
as to him may seem best my house and lot in the village
of Chapel Hill known as the "Hackney place" and to
divide the proceed of said sale between my three children
herein before named share and share alike.

Item ["seventh" x-out] eighth: I give to my daughter Mary V.
Hargrave my cooking utensils in my kitchen in Chapel Hill.

Item ninth: I give and bequeath all my estate of every
kind both real and personal Save and excepting that part
which is herein before Specially disposed of, to my three
children Mary V Hargrave Robert W Hargrave and
William F Hargrave share and share alike

Finally I nominate and appoint my brother Willis
    Barbee to execute this my last will and
    testament.

In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand
and affixed my seal this 7th day of April 1863
Signed & sealed in presents  } M J Hargrave (seal)
of J.L. Stewart
Jas. N. Patterson

[Will Book Volume G, page 404]
In the name of God! Amen.

I Margaret James Hargrave of Orange County
and State of North Carolina, being sick & weak of
body, but of Sound mind memory and understanding
and Considering the Certainty of death and the uncertainty
of the time thereof & to the end that I may be the
better prepared to leave this world whenever it shall
please God to call me hence, do, therefore make and
declare this my last will and testament in manner and
form following that is to say

    First and principally I Commit my soul into the
hands of my Creator who gave it and my body to
the earth to be interred at the plantation by the side
of my late husband Jesse Hargrave.

    And also Such worldly estate wherewith it hath
pleased God to intrust me. I dispose of the same as
followeth.

    Item first. Whereas the house and lot on which I
now reside in the village of Chapel Hill was devised
to me by my late husband Jesse Hargrave for and during
my natural life with remainder to my daughter Mary
V. Hargrave in fee. and I have since the death of my
said husband placed improvements on said lot valued
at about twenty five hundred dollars. I therefore give
to my sons Robert W Hargrave and William F Hargrave
respectively a legacy of twenty five hundred dollars to
each of them in order to equalize their shares with
that of my daughter above mentioned.

Item Second. I give and devise to my son Robert
W Hargrave my mountain tract of land being the same
which came to me as my part of the real estate of my
father William Barbee

Item third. I give and bequeath to my daughter Mary V
Hargrave my negro woman Sue aged about sixteen
and her child about two years old.

Item fourth. I give to my sons William F and Robt
W Hargrave my two large Iron pots one to each of
them respectively

[Will Book Volume G, page 405]
Item fifth. I give and bequeath to my daughter
Mary V Hargrave all my parlor furniture consisting
of piana melodean sofas chairs pictures books carpets
and other articles and as to all the furniture with
which my dwelling house is furnished such as beds tables
washstands chairs carpets bureaus books my will is that
it be equally divided between my three children
Mary V Hargrave William F Hargrave and Robt W Hargrave
and I do hereby authorize and empower my executor
herein after named to divide the aforesaid house
furniture between my three said children according
to his best Judgment and as nearly equal as he may
be able

    Item Sixth I give and bequeath to my daughter
Mary V Hargrave my pair of carriage horses and also
food for the said horses for one year next after my
death and also my carriage and harness.

    Item Seventh. I do hereby authorize and empower
my executor herein after named to sell on such
terms as to him may seem best my house and lot
in the village of Chapel Hill Known as the Hackney
place and to divide the proceed of said sale
between my three children herein before named
    share and share alike.

    Item eighth I give to my daughter Mary V Hargrave
my Cooking utensils in my Kitchen in Chapel Hill

Item ninth. I give and bequeath all my estate of every Kind both
real and personal save and excepting that part which is
herein before specially disposed of to my three children Mary V
Hargrave Robert W Hargrave and William F Hargrave share and
share alike. Finally I nominate and appoint my brother
Willis Barbee to execute this my last will and testament

    In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
    affixed my seal this 7th day of April 1863

    Signed & sealed in presence of }
    J L Stewart
    Jas N Patterson                     M J Hargrave (seal)

Orange County Court May Term 1863
The execution of the foregoing last will and testament of Margaret James
Hargraves was duly proven in open Court according to law See
minutes

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 404-405
Recorded May 1863

Estate Papers comprise 18 pages and are found in folder labeled "Hargrave, M J (1863)" .

[Estate Papers - Inventory and appraisal Aug 1863]
A list of the real estate good and chattles which
were of M. J. Hargrave late of Orange County North
Carolina which came into the hand of Willis Barber
Executor the last will and testament of the said
M. J. Hargrave, to wit:

[many articles and bonds omitted]

The following slaves to wit
                             $    cts
George aged  26 years         975.00
Haywood  "   24   "          1066.00
Avery    "   22   "           975.00
Peter    "   20   "           950.00
Rufus    "   18   "           900.00
Nancy    "   50   "           150.00
Jane     "   30   "           700.00
Charles  "   13   "           600.00
Adaline  "    8   "           450.00
Berry    "    4   "           400.00
Henry    "   10   "(sickly)   300.00
Frances  "    7   "           400.00
Baby (Nelson) " +3 months     100.00
George of Candis age 16 years 800.00
Doock aged   18 years         950.00
Monroe   "   14   "           600.00
Whitefield " 12   "           550.00
Candis   "   55   "           150.00
Hillory  "   22   "           950.00
Charlotte & her child         900.00
Martha aged  18 years         800.00
Joe      "   63   "           200.00
Thom     "   22   "           750.00
Annie    "   17   "           750.00
Nelson   "   58   "           200.00
Sue & Child                  1000.00
Cambridge 87 years old

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

