Will of John L Brown - 11 Dec 1863

I John L. Brown of the County of Orange
and state of North Carolina, do make and
ordain this my last will and testament
in Manner and form following, Viz:

    I give and bequeath unto my wife
Elizabeth Brown during her life time,
for her benefit and that of her children
the following property, Viz: all my land,
all my stock of every kind, all my planta-
tion, blacksmith and woodshop Tools, and
one thousand dollars in money - and
also my negro man Jacob. And should
my wife be unable to control Jacob,
then it is my will that he shall be
sold by my Executor either publiclly
or privately at the desceretion of my
Executor, and with the proceeds of
such sale my Executor is here by au-
thorized and requested, if possible,
to purchase another negro man
to supply the place of the one sold.

    It is also my will that my Exec-
utor shall take in charge all the resi-
due of my estate and divide it out
equally to all my living children.
I also give unto my wife all the crop,
provisions, timber, iron and steel that
may be on hand at the time of my
death.

    It is furthermore my will, that,
at the death of my wife, all the proper-

[page 2]
ty herein before left to ["wife" x-out] her during her
life including my negro man Jacob or
the one which may have been bought
in his stead, and also my land shall
be sold, and the proceeds taken in
hand by my Executor and equally
divided between my living children
as they arrive at age.

    And lastly I do hereby nominate
and appoint my wife's brother Harvey
J. Rountree my Executor to this my
last will and Testament.

    In testimony whereof I, the said John
L. Brown, do hereunto set my hand and
seal this 11th day of December A.D. 1863

    Signed, sealed, published  }
and declared by the said J. L. }   John L Brown (seal)
Brown to be his last will and  }
Testament in the presence of   }
us, who, at his request and in }
his presence, do subscribe our }
names as witnesses thereto.
Robert Hall Sen. Jurat
A.W. Gay Jurat

Renounces his right to Jurat[?] same

[Will Book Volume G, page 419]
I John L. Brown of the County of Orange and
state of North Carolina do make and ordain this ["to" x-out]
my last will and testament in manner and form following
Viz
    I give and bequeath unto my wife Elizabeth
Brown during her life time, for her benefit and that
of her children the following property Viz: All my
land all my stock of every kind all my plantation
blacksmith and woodshop Tools, and one thousand
dollars in money - and also my negro man Jacob.
And should my wife be unable to control
Jacob, then it is my will that he shall be sold by
my Executor either publicly or privately at the discretion
of my Executor and with the proceeds of such
sale my Executor is here by Authorized and requested
if possible to purchase another negro man to
supply the place of the one sold

    It is also my will that my Executor shall
take in charge all the residue of my estate
and divide it out equally to all my living
children

    I also give unto my wife all the Crop provisions
timber Iron and steel that may be on hand at
the time of my death. It is furthermore my will
that at the death of my wife, all the property
herein before left to her during her life including my
negro man Jacob or the one which may have
been bought in his stead, and also my land shall
be sold, and the proceeds taken in hand by my
Executor and equally divided between my living
Children as they arrive at age

    And lastly I do hereby nominate and appoint
my wifes brother Harvey J. Rountree my Executor
to this my last will and Testament

    In testimony whereof I the said John L. Brown
do hereunto set my hand and seal this 11th day
of December AD 1863.

    Signed, sealed, published and declared

[Will Book Volume G, page 420]

by the said J L Brown to be his       }
last will and Testament in the        }
presence of us who at his request     }  John L Brown (seal)
and in his presence, do subscribe our }
names as witnesses thereto.           }
Robert Hall                           }
AW Gay                                }

Orange County Court Feb Term 1864
The foregoing last will and testament of John L Brown
was duely proven in open Court according to law
and ordered to be recorded

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 419-420
Recorded Feb 1864

There is another handwritten copy of this will in the folder

Estate Papers comprise 46 pages and are found in folder "Brown, John L (1866)". Testator died in Dec 1863.  Includes Writ of Dower and associated papers.  Estate sale was conducted on 4 Sep 1866 and does not include any slaves.  Inventory includes: "One Negro Boy Jake".  There was a second estate sale on 30 Jan 1879, perhaps as a consequence of the death of the testator's widow?


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

