Will of Joseph Blount - 11 Nov 1843

In the name of God, Amen I Joseph Blount of the
county of Chowan in the state of North Carolina, being at
present in health, and of sound and disposing mind, memory
and understanding, but considering the uncertainty of this
mortal life do make, ordain, and declare this my last
will and testament in writing, in manner following:

First I give and bequeath to my friend William Cain of
Hillsboro: and my cousin William H Standin, of Chowan County,
the sum of twenty thousand dollars, in trust that they,
or the survivor, shall cause the same to be kept at interest
during the life-time of my mother Frances C P, now the
wife of William Hill, Senr, and shall pay over annually
the interest of said sum unto my said mother for her sole and separate use as if she were
a femme sole, no part of which shall in any manner be subject
to the debts, contracts, control or engagements of her present or
any future husband, and her receipts for said annual interest
under her own hand, and none other, shall from time to time
be sufficient discharges therefore; and in the event of the annual
interest of said sum of twenty thousand dollars proving insuf-
ficient for the comfortable support and maintenance of my
said mother, then I direct so much of the said principal as
said trustees or the survivor may deem necessary to be from
time to time, as occasion shall or may require, [??? "be"? x-out. Note 1] applied
toward said support and maintenance of my mother:

And upon the decease of my said mother, then in trust
to pay and apply the said principal sum of twenty thous
and dollars, or such part thereof as may remain, unto
such person or persons, and for such uses and purposes as my
said Mother by her last will and testament, or any writing
in the nature of a last will and testament, signed by her
in the presence of two or more credible witnesses, notwith-
standing her coverture, shall direct, limit and appoint - But
if it shall so happen that my said mother shall die before
me, or if she shall survive me, and afterwards die
without having made such last will or appointment as
aforesaid, then in either case, I give, bequeath and dispose
of said sum of twenty thousand dollars, or such
part of said principal sum as may remain thereof in
the following manner, that is to say, One fourth part
thereof, to my friends Charles Evans, Doctor of Medicine, and
John G Hoskins, both of the city of Philadelphia, in Pennsyl-
vania, in trust nevertheless to appropriate, pay and apply
the whole, or so much thereof as may be deemed or found
necessary, for and towards the erection of a Library House
at and as an appendage to an institution near Frankford

[page 2]
in the county of Philadelphia, in the state of Pennsylvania, known
by the name of 'The Contributors to the Asylum for the relief of
persons deprived of the use of their Reason', commonly called Friends
Asylum, - for the use of the female patients of said institution:
and in case the said sum shall be more than sufficient for
that purpose - then to pay and apply all the residue thereof for
the use and benefit of the said Institution, in such way, and
manner as they the said Trustees or the survivor of them shall
deem most efficient for the promotion of its benevolent objects &
designs - One other fourth of said sum of twenty thousand
Dollars, or a such part of said principal sum as may remain
as aforesaid, to William Hill, senior, herein before named, his exec-
utors, administrators and a signs - One other fourth part of said
principal sum, or of such part thereof as may remain as
aforesaid, to Cynthia Hill, daughter of said William Hill
senior, her executors, administrators and assigns - Three fifths
of the other fourth part of said principal sum, or such
part thereof as May remain as aforesaid to Henry Jones of
Raleigh, his executors, administrators and assigns - and the
other two fifths of said other fourth part of said principal
sum of twenty thousand dollars, or such part thereof as may
remain as aforesaid to Edwin A Heartt of Hillsboro', North
Carolina, his executors, administrators and assigns -

Secondly - I give and bequeath to my Aunts Frances Standin,
Sarah Morgan and Elizabeth Cheshire, each the sum of
ten thousand dollars -

Thirdly I give and bequeath to my Cousins Joseph B
Cheshire and Elizabeth Cheshire, each, the sum of Eight
thousand dollars, - and to their sister (my Cousin) Sarah
Francis Webb the sum of Four thousand dollars -

Fourthly I give and bequeath to my cousin William H
Standin the sum of Five thousand dollars

Fifthly - I give, devise and bequeath all the rest, residue and
remainder of the Estate of which I may be seized or possessed, or
in any way intitled to or interested in at the time of my
decease, and wheresover the sum may be situated unto all
the Legatees herein before named open (including the Legatees in Trust)
their several and respective heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns forever: - to be divided among them so that the part
and share thereof to each Legatee shall bear the same ratio
and proportion to the whole residue as the legacy herein before
given and bequeathed to him or her, bears to the aggregate of
all of the Legacies herein before given and bequeathed; and the
share thereof to the trustees first named in my Will to be upon

[page 3]
the same trusts for the same uses, and to go over upon the
same contingencies to the same persons and for the same uses
and purposes as are expressed, limited and declared of and con-
cerning the said Legacy of twenty thousand dollars herein and
hereby first given and bequeathed -

            And lastly I hereby nominate and appoint my
friends James L Byron and William H Standin to
be the Executors of this my last will and testament; hereby
revoking all other wills by me heretofore made, and declare
this and this only to be and contain my last will & testament -

            In Witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand
and seal this Eleventh day of November in the year of our
Lord, one thousand eight hundred and forty three
The words "for her sole & separate use" interlined & two words erased [Note 1] before signing -

Signed, sealed, published and declared by   }
the said testator, as and for his last will }
& testament in the presence of us, who at   }
his request and in his presence, and in     }
the presence of each other, subscribe our   }   Joseph Blount (wax seal)
names hereto as Witnesses                   ]
Sam J Johnston
Ja. R Johnston
John Thompson

[Will Book Volume G, page 438]
In the name of God, Amen

I Joseph Blount of the county of Chowan in the state
of North Carolina being at present in health and of Sound
and disposing mind memory and understanding, but
Considering the uncertainty of this mortal life do make ordain
and declare this my last will and Testament in writing
in manner following:

First I give and bequeath to my friend William Cain
of Hillsboro; and my cousin William H Standin, of Chowan
County the Sum of twenty thousand dollars in trust
that they, or the Surviver[sic] shall cause the same to be
kept at interest during the lifetime of my Mother Frances
C P now the wife of William Hill Senr. and shall pay
over annually the interest of said sum unto my said Mother
for her sole and separate use as if she were a femme sole,
no part of which shall in any manner be subject to the
debts, contracts, control or engagements of her present
or any future husband, and her receipt for said annual
interest under her own hand and none other shall from
time to time be sufficient discharges therefore; and in
the event of the annual interest of said sum of twenty
thousand dollars proving insufficient for the comfortable
support and maintenance of my said mother then
I direct so much of the said principal as said trustees
or the surviver may deem necessary to be from time to time
as occasion shall or may require applied toward
said support and maintenance of my Mother

And upon the decease of my said Mother then in trust
to pay and apply the said principal sum of twenty
thousand dollars, or such part thereof as may
remain, unto such person or persons and for such
uses and purposes as my said Mother by her last
will and testament or any writing in the nature
of a last will and testament signed by her in the
presence of two or more credible witnesses, notwith
=standing her coverture, shall direct limit and appoint
~~ But if it shall so hap[p]en that my said Mother shall
die before me, or if she shall survive me and

[Will Book Volume G, page 439]
afterwards die, without having made such last will
or appointment as aforesaid; then in either case; I give
bequeath and dispose of said sum of twenty thousand
dollars or such part of said principal sum as may
remain thereof in the following manner that is to say

One fourth part thereof to my friends Charles Evans
Doctor of Medicine and John G Hoskins both
of the city of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania, in trust
nevertheless to appropriate pay and apply the whole
or so much thereof as may be deemed or found
necessary for and towards the erection of a Library
House at and as an appendage to an institution near
Frankfort in the County of Philadelphia in the State
of Pennsylvania known by the name of 'The Contributors
to the Asylum for the relief of persons deprived of
the use of their Reason', commonly called Friends Asylum
for the use of the female patients of Said Institution: And
in case the said sum shall be more than sufficient
for that purpose then to pay and apply all the residue
thereof for the use and benefit of the said Institution
in such way and manner as they the said Trustees or
the Surviver of them shall deem most efficient for
the promotion of its benevolent objects & designs

One other fourth of said sum of twenty thousand
Dollars or a such part of said principal sum as
may remain as aforesaid to William Hill senior herein
before named his Executors administrators and assigns

One other fourth part of said principal sum or of such
part thereof as may remain as aforesaid, to Cynthia Hill
daughter of said William Hill senior her Executors admin=
=istrators and assigns, Three fifths of the other fourth part
of said principal sum or Such part thereof as may
remain as aforesaid to Henry Jones of Raleigh his
Executors administrators and assigns. And the other
two fifths of said other fourth part of said principal
sum of twenty thousand dollars or such part
thereof as may remain as aforesaid to Edwin A Heartt
of Hillsboro North Carolina, his Executors administrators

[Will Book Volume G, page 440]
and assigns. Secondly I give and bequeath to my
Aunt[s] Frances Standin Sarah Morgan and Elizabeth
Cheshire each the sum of ten thousand dollars

Thirdly I give and bequeath to my Cousins Joseph B Cheshire
and Elizabeth Cheshire each the sum of Eight thousand
dollars and to their Sister my Cousin Sarah Frances
Webb the sum of Four thousand Dollars

Fourthly I give and bequeath to my Cousin William H Standin
the Sum of Five thousand dollars

Fifthly I give devise and bequeath all the rest residue and remainder
of the Estate of which I may be seized or possessed, or in any way
entitled to or interested in at the time of my decease and
wheresover the sum may be Situated unto all the Legatees
herein before named open (Including the Legatees in trust) their
several and respective heirs executors administrators
and assigns forever to be divided among them so
that the part and share thereof to each Legatee shall
bear the same ratio and proportion to the whole
residue as the Legacy herein before given and bequeathed
to him or her bears to the aggregate of all of the Legacies
herein before given and bequeathed: and the share thereof
to the trustees first named in my Will to be upon the
same trust[s] for the Same uses, and to go over upon
the same Contingencies to the same persons and
for the same uses and purposes as are Expressed
limited and declared of and concerning the
said legacy of twenty thousand dollars herein
and hereby first given and bequeathed

    And lastly I hereby nominate and appoint
my friend[s] James L Byron and William
H Standin to be the Executors of this my last
will and testament; hereby revoking all other
wills by me heretofore made, and declare
this and this only to be and contain my last
will and testament

        In Witness whereof I have
hereunto set my hand and seal this
Eleventh day of November in the year

[Will Book Volume G, page 441]
of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and
forty three

The words "for her sole and separate use" interlined & two words erased
[Note 1] before signing

Signed sealed, published & declared
by the said testator as and for
his last will and testament in
the presence of us who at his
request and in his presence              Joseph Blount
and in the presence of each other
subscribe our names hereto as witnesses
Sam J Johnston
Ja. R Johnston
John Thompson

             Orange County COurt May Term 1864
The foregoing last will and testament of Joseph Bount
deceased was duely proven in open Court according
to law and order[e]d to be recorded see minutes
                                 Geo. Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 438-441
Recorded May 1864

There are affidavits that accompany this will, as well as a handwritten duplicate.

Note 1:  The "two words erased" referred to in the end note of the will.

Estate Papers comprise 154 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Blount, Joseph (1864)".  Testator died in January 1864.  Joseph B Cheshire's full name is listed as Joseph Benton Cheshire.

[Estate Papers - Indenture 7 May 1834]

This indenture duplicate made and
concluded this the seventh day of May AD 1834
between William Hill of the city of Raleigh, and Frances
C. P. Hill wife of said Will, of the first part and
Ichabod Wetmore also of said Raleigh, of the second part
Witnesseth that whereas a marriage had been lately had
and solemnized between the said William and Frances
and whereas also the said William is minded to set-
tle and assure the property which was late that of
the said Frances, so as to place the same at her disposal
in case of her death.  And whereas also the said prop=
erty consists of the following debts, securities, stocks, ne
groes, furniture and land (viz;) thirty four shares
of the captial stock of the State Bank of North Carolina
upon which there is due a blance of said capital, the
sum of One Thousand and Twenty Dollars ($1020) be-
sides surplus profits, that have accumulated, or hereafter
may accumulate thereon Also fifty shares of the capital
stock of the Fulton Fire Insurance Company, in the
city of New York; one note on J S J Bryan for Three Tho-
sand Dollars being interesstin and which is dated
May 15. 1832. One note signed by David Yarbrough and
William Cain Jr for One Thousand Five Hundred
Dollars ($1500) dated February 15 1833. One note
on Edmund Strudwick. James Webb, William
F. Strudwick and William Cain Jr for Ten Thousand
Dollars which is dated June 1st 1833, and bearing inrest
from the date. Two lots of ground in the town of Hills-
borough, containing together seven acres, lately in the
occupancy of the said Frances, also negroes Lizzie, Paulina
John & Richard, one carriage, two horses and har-
ness, and sundry articles of household goods, plate
furniture, linen &c which is more particualrly
set forth in a schedule hereunto annexed
Now this Indenture witnesseth that the said William

[page 2]
& Frances, for the purpose of effecting the said above recited
intention and in consideration of the sum of One Dollar
to them in hand paid by said Ichabod Wetmore [handwriting changes here ] have
bargaining & sold assigned & set over to the
Said Icabod Wetmore all of the above
ascribe Land, stocks, notes, securities,
Slaves, horse, carriage, harness, household,
goods, plate, Linen & Furniture to have & to
hold the same & each and every part thereof
to him the said Icabod Wetmore, his heirs,
executors, administrators & assigns forever.
And the said William Hill doth by these
presents hereby authorize & empower the said
Icabod Wetmore as the true and lawful
attorney of the said William to assign & set
over all the said above mentioned stock
to any person or persons, the said Icabod
hereafter may in execution of the trusts
of tie indenture sell the same - [back to first handwriting] and further
in the name of the said William, and in his place and
stead to receive all dividends either of capital or of profits
which may hereafter be declared upon any of the said
stocks.

And the said William doth hereby authorise and em-
power the said Ichabod Wetmore in his name to ask
demand, sue for, and recover all or any of the money
due from the said bonds, notes, and securities.  And
further doth hereby covenant grant and agree to with the
said Ichabod from time to time, and at all times
hereafter, to execute to the said Ichabod formal letters
of attorney or other instruments which may be nec-
cessary to enable the said Icabod to make such trans
fers, to receive the said capital and profits, or col-
lect the said bonds, notes, and securities, But these
presents are hereby declared to be upon the

[page 3]
following special trusts and confidences.

First; that the said Icabod Wetmore shall in no respect
either at law of in equity, be liable for any breach of trust
in respect thereof; but only for such monies as he may
receive, by virtue of these presents, and shall neglect to
pay, and account for, as hereinafter directed.

[change back to second handwriting style]
Snd.; that the said Icabod shall when thereunto requested
by the said William & Frances in writing under their
hands sell out ["of" x-out] the said stock or receive the capital
thereof, and collect the money due upon the said Bonds
notes, and securities, and further that he shall re-invest
the same in other securities, or in land or slaves, as he
may be required by the said William & Frances, or either
of them by writing under their or either of their hands, and
in case of disagreement between the said William & Frances
in respect to such re-investment, as he may be directed
by the said Frances, and further that he shall hold the
monies thus reinvested upon the same trusts declared in
this indenture.

Thirdly; that the said Icabod Wetmore shall pay the
annual income of the said property, or of the same as
it may be re-invested, whether dividends of profits, interest
rent or hire to the said William Hill during the joint
lives of the said William and Frances

Fourthly; that the said Icabod Wetmore shall from and
after the death of said Frances hold the said stocks, slaves
bonds, notes, securities, land, furniture &c or the secu-
rities in which the same shall be re-invested, in trust
for such person or persons in such proportion or pro
portions, as the said Frances shall by writing under her
hand and seal, in the nature of a deed, or in the nature
of a last will and testament, limit and appoint, and
in default of such appointment by the said Frances
then as to the said land, and the furniture in the
house thereon, in trust for the heirs of the said Frances

[page 4]
and as to all the residue of the said property
in trust for the said William, if he should survive
the said Frances,

And in case the said Frances should survive the said
William, then the said Icabod Wetmore is to hold all
the said above conveyed property in trust for the said
Frances, and shall convey the legal title thereof directly to
her, or as she may appoint.

                          In witness whereof the said
parties have hereunto set heir hand and affixed their
seals, the day of[and] the date above written

Signed sealed and              Wm Hill (seal)
delivered in presence of       F. P. Hill (seal)
     Wm R Hill                 I. Wetmore (seal)

North Carolina
    I Thomas Ruffin Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of North Carolina certify that before me on this 28th
day of July 1834 at Wake County, Icabod Wetmore one of the
parties to the within deed duly acknowledged the Execution thereof,
& also the schedule annexed by himself; and also William Hill
& his wife France C. P. Hill the other parties thereto duly in their
proper persons acknowledged the same to be their act & deed & also
the said schedule: and at the same place and immediately thereafter, I
examine the said Frances C P. Hill privily & separated apart from her
said husband as to the free execution of the same by herself & upon such
Examination she the said France C.P. Hill did acknowledge & confess to
me that she executed the said deed with said schedule freely & voluntarily
& without any fear of compulsion of her said husband William Hill
& declared that she now fully assented to the same - Wherefore let the
said deed with said schedule & this certificate be registered
                                       Thomas Ruffin

[written vertically in the left margin]
Registered in the Registers Office of Wake County in Book No 11 and page 395 & 396 this 11th day of
November A.D. 1834  Richard Smith "Register"

[Estate Papers - Bill of Complaint 24 Jul 1857]

State of North Carolina } Court of Equity
       Orange County    } To September Term
                        }    1857

    To the Honorable the Judge of Orange Court of Equity

        The Bill of Complaint of William Hill and
        France C P Hill his wife
                        against
        E. A. Wetmore William G Bradfoot and Frances
his wife Samuel Hinsdale and Elizabeth his wife
Theophilus Homes [Holmes?] and Laura his wife, Philip Wiley
& Lydia his wife, Thomas Wetmore, George B Wetmore,
and William Wetmore

        Humbly sheweth unto your Honor that the plain=
tiff William Hill married the plaintiff Frances C. P.
who was the widow of the late Joseph Blount of Chowan
County and was possessed of a considerable estate,
and for the purpose of making a settlement of her
property or a portion of it, agreeable to them both,
they did after their marriage viz on the 7th of May
1834 execute a deed to Icabod Wetmore then residing
in Raleigh, as a trustee by which they conveyed to him
34 shares of the stock of the State Bank of North
Carolina, then in a state of liquidation, on which
there remained to be paid about the sum of $1020
besides surplus profits; 50 shares of the Fulton Fire
insurance company in the City of New York; one
note on J S J Bryan for $3000 bearing date 15 May
1832, one note on David Yarbrough and William

[page 2]
Cain Jr for $1500 dated 15 Febr'y 1833, one other note
on E. Strudwick, James Webb & William Cain Jr for $10:000
date 1 June 1833, two lots of land in the Town of Hills=
borough, on which the said Frances resided, in fee simple,
containing above seven acres, also negroes Lizzie, Pauli=
na John & Richard one carriage and Harness, two
horses, & sundry articles of house hold goods, furni=
ture plate, linen &c which are enumerated in
a schedule annexed to said deed; in trust to said
Wetmore to hold, manage, sell, exchange, collect pay over
pay over[sic] and account for, agreeably to the provisions
authority and directions contained in said deed;
namely:

First.  That the said Wetmore should be held liable on
account of the said property and effect only for
money which should be received by him and for
any breach of trust

Secondly. That whenever required under the
hand & seal of the said William and Frances in
writing, he should sell the said stocks or receive the
capital thereof, & collect the money due upon the
said bonds, notes & other securities, and again vizt
the same, in other securities or in lands or slaves
as he might be required by the said William and
Frances or either of them in writing under their or
either of their hands, or in case of disagreement
between them as the said Frances might direct
the sums thus reinvested to be upon the same trust
as are declared in the said deed

Thirdly That the said Wetmore should pay the
annual income arising from the said property

[page 3]
and effects to the said William, during the joint
lives of the said William and Frances

Fourthly That he should after the death of the said Fran=
ces hold all of the said property and securities or the
property and securities derived from them in trust
for such person or persons and in such proportion
or proportions, as the said Frances should by any
writing under her hand and seal in the nature
of a deed or in the nature of a will limit and
appoint; And in default of such appointment
by the said Frances, then that he should hold the lots
of land and houses thereon and the furniture
in the house, in trust for the heirs of the said Frances;
and as to all the residue of the said property, in
trust for the said William if he should survive
the said Frances; And in case the said Frances
should survive the said William, then the said Wit=
more was to hold all the property conveyed in said
deed for the said Frances and was to convey to her
the legal title thereof.

    The plaintiffs further shew that the said deed
was duly acknowledged before Chief Justice Ruffin by
all the parties executing the same including the said
Wetmore, the said Frances was privily examined as to
her execution thereof, & by order of the said Judge the
deed with the annexed schedule was duly registered
in Wake County and the said Wetmore accepted the
trust therein reposed in him and undertook the
execution thereof.  A copy of which deed accompanies
this bill as a part thereof

[page 4]
    The plaintiffs further shew that Mr. Wetmore a
number of years ago removed to Fayetteville leaving
the said William residing in Raleigh and the
said Frances residing in Hillsborough, and the he
has since died, leaving a last will and testament
duly executed and appointing therein his wife
the defendant E. Wetmore his executrix, which
will was duly proving Cumberland County Court
and is now there of record, and Mrs Wetmore
qualified as executrix and assume the du=
ties of that office.

    The plaintiffs are advised that the title
to the legal estate mentioned in the said deed has
descended to the heirs at law of Mrs Wetmore &
and[sic] the title to the slaves & bonds taken payable
to him has vested in Mrs Wetmore as his execu=
trix.  And that he left him surviving his children
and heirs at law to whom the legal estate to
the lands have descended the defendants, Frances
his daughter married William G. Bradfoot, Eliza=
beth his daughter married to Samuel Hinsdale,
Laura his daughter married to Theophilus Holmes
Lydia his daughter married to Philip Wiley, and
his sons Thomas Wetmore, George B. Wetmore and
William Wetmore.

    The plaintiffs further shew unto your Honor
that Mr. Wetmore in the discharge of his duties as trus=
tee under the said deed acted under the direction
and according to the wishes of the plaintiffs, who
indeed had the entire control of all the property
and effect, and Mr. Wetmore did little more

[page 5]
than to perform those personal acts with the laws
in the course of business required in order ["to collect" x-out]
["the income of the" x-out] to enable plaintiffs to make
the fund available to them, and no money ever
came to the hands or Mr. Wetmore in his life, belong=
ing to the trust or to the hands of Mrs. Wetmore since
his death but the money collected was received by these plantiffs themselves
and neither of them ever was liable
for any account of principal interest dividend
rents or property received by them, nor are they now liable

    The plaintiffs further shew unto your Honor
that it is obviously inconvenient if not imprac
ticable that the executrix and heirs at law of
Mr. Wetmore should execute any further the
said trusts; And they therefore pray that another
trustee may be appointed by this Honorable Court
to whom all the remaining trust property and
effects of every description may be transferred
to be managed by him according to the declara=
tions contained in said deed, and that they may
have such other & further relief as in the pre=
mises may seem meet & proper.  And to this end
and that the defendants may upon oath answer
the allegations contained in this bill, may it please
your Honor to grant unto them the states writ of subpoe=
na to be directed to said defendants requiring them to
appear at the next term of this court to be held at
Hillboro on the 2nd Monday of September next then
& there to answer the bill & perform such decree as
may be made therein.
                              J. W. Norwood
                                 Sol for Plntffs

[Estate Papers - Answer of Deft Sep 1857]

North Carolina                      In Equity

    The Answer of Elizabeth A. Wetmore: Theophilus
Holmes & Wife Laura: Samuel J.[?] Hinsdale and Wife Elizabeth
Willian G. Broadfoot and wie Frances: Philip A Wiley & wife
Lydia: Thomas B. George B. and Willaim Wetmore:

                     to the Bill of Compliant of William
Hill & wife Frances C. P.

                     These Defendants saving & reserving all
manner of exception &c to the Complainants Bill of Complaint
&c answering say.

                     It is true as alledged[sic], that Complainants'
did on or about the 7th May 1834 execute a deed to Ichabod
Wetmore decd. in manner & form as set forth, and with the
intent & for the purposes therein specified

                      That the said Icahbod Wetmore died -
leaving his widow Elizabeth A. one of these Defendants, his
Executrix - and the other defendants, to wit Laura, who married

[page 2]
Theophilus Holmes: Elizabeth who married Samuel J. Hinsdale:
Frances  who married  William G. Broadfoot: Lydia who married
Philip A. Wiley: and Thomas B. George B and William Wetmore
his children & heirs at Law.

                      Further answering these Defendants say. That
the testator Ichabod Wetmore, in his capacity as Trustee, had
not during his life time, nor have any of these defendants
Since his death ["had" x-out], any control or possession of any of
the Trust estate, nor did he during his life time, or they since
his death, receive hold or use any of the rents, profits, interest
or dividends arising from or incident to said trust estate. --- but
that the Complainants, at their own special instance and request,
had the Entire Management control & benefit of the sane.

                      Further answering these Defendants Say. That
they readily & cheerfully acquiesce in the desire of Complainants
that another Trustee should be appointed, and that
a transfer of the trust property remaining, should be made
to him.                                  The defendants having

[page 3]
thus answered &c pray that they may be hence dismissed with
their reasonable costs in this behalf sustained
                                  Wm. H. Haigh
                                          Sol for Defts

Notth Carolina
       Cumberland Co.

                      Personally appeared before me Walter A. Huske
Clerk & Master in Equity for the County & State aforesaid, Samuel J.
Hinsdale, one of the Defts in the foregoing answer, who being by me
duly sworn, saith That the facts set forth in the same, as of his
own Knowledge are true: that not of his own Knowledge he believes
to be true.                    Saml J. Hinsdale

Sworn [and] subscribed
before me    W Huske Clerk & Master

[Estate Papers - Estate Sale 12 Jun 1864]

Account Sales Made by Wm H Standin Exr of Jos Blount
June 12th 1864

[other articles omitted]

Shepard                 Thomas Webb           5660.
Nat                     Robert W. Anderson    5500.
Harriett & 4 Children   James G. Whitted      8330.

[Estate Papers - Inventory]
Negroes to be valued
Nat.
Bill.
Sheppard.
Harriet and Children
{ Rebecca
{ Cinthia
{ Sally
{ James
[other articles omitted]

[Estate Papers - Distribution 9 Feb 1871]
[Note: The last $800 of this estate was distributed at this time.  These were the distributees.]

J. D. Martin exr. of Mrs C. P. Hill mother of JW[?] Blount is
entiteld to 20/75 parts of the same & no rev Tax on her's
so that the share going to her estate is            $213.32
Mrs. E. B. Standin Exrx of Mrs F S Standin  10/75's   106.66
Mrs. E. B. Standin Exrx of Mrs S. E. Morgan 10/75's   106.66
Mrs. E. B. Standin Admrx of W. H Standin     5/75's    53.33
Jos. B. Cheshire Exr of Mrs. E. B. Cheshire 10/75's   106.66
Jos. B. Cheshire in his own right            8/75's    85.32
Mrs. Elizabeth M Nain                        8/75's    85.32
Sarah F Webb                                 4/75's    42.73


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

