Will of Cadwallader Jones - ca 1860

In the name of God Amen - I Cadwallader Jones
of the County of Orange & State of North Carolina
do make & ordain this my last will & testament Viz

1st I give & bequeath the farm on which I live in the County
aforesaid, to my dear Wife her heirs & assigns forever, toge-
ther with all its appurtainances[sic], the furniture in the house
of every discpription[sic], the plate included - the farm tools,
the carriages & horses & every kind of stock, together with
the crop on hand, to her heirs and assigns forever.

2nd I give to my sons Cadwallader & Robin all my lands in
South Carolina, to be divided ["equally as xxxxxxxx" x-out] between
them, according to the line which has been or may be hereafter
agreed upon by them - to them their heirs & assigns forever.

3rd  I give to my daughter Mary R. Ruffin the lot on which
she lives in Hillsboro containing about six acres & the
lot opposite on which one of her servants lives, to her
her heirs & assigns forever.

4th I give & bequeath to my[sic] Rebecca my wife son ["sons Allen C. Jones" x-out] Pride Jones
& my daughters Mary R. Ruffin & Sally R. Jones all my
lands in the State of Alabama to be equally divided between
them - to them their heirs & assigns forever -

5   I give to my dear Wife thirty thousand dollars in Money
to be raised on the bonds I now hold as far as they will
go towards [x-out] it, the money due me from Mc
Dowell & Wilkins[Withers] of Mobile & the balance from the crop
now being made on the Alabama plantation, or the succeed
ing crop should it be necessary, which I do not anticipate.
It is my will & desire that the sd sum of $30_000_ shall
be invested by my executors in some safe monied in
-stitution, so that she may have no trouble in its manage
-ment - my expectation being that the interest will be suf
-ficient for her support in her usual style of living -
this of course she will draw at her pleasure - Neverthe
-less I give her the sd sum of $30,000 to dispose of as she
may think proper -

[superscript: "or an equal number from my other
negroes to fill up the voids by death.]

6th I give to my sd Wife the following negro slaves now liv-
ing on my farm in Orange County, N.C. Viz ["Anthony," x-out] Jane
Lucretia, Peter, Violet, Charlotte, Jimmy, Betsey, Hannah,
James, Tom, Patty, Virgil, Betsey & Rufus, (Hannah's children) Hampton
Landonia & her child, Margarett & Junius to her, her heirs

[page 2]

and assigns forever, but in case she should prefer
other servants to those above mentioned it is my will
that she take any others ["at her pleasure" x-out]from among my negroes of equal val-
ue, at her pleasure -

7th  Having heretofore conveyed to my son Allen forty two
negroes named in the deed of gift, to which reference can
be had, I hereby confirm the same to him, his heirs & assigns forever

8th  I give & bequeath to my son Cadwallader the following
negroes, heretofore alloted to him Viz. Moses, Caroline
Mariah, Sharper, Franky, Minerva, Herman, Lucretia,
Herman jr., Milly, Adam, Nathan, Albert(son of Mark),
Charles(of Ned), Martha, Syphax[?], Harriet, Martha Byron,
Alfred, Peggy, Fred, Sarah, Charles, Cuba, Toynette - to him
his heirs & assigns forever.

9th  I give & bequeath to my son Pride ["Jones" x-out], the following ne
groes now in his possession Viz Bartlett, Hetty, Caesar, Man-
-delbert, Randal, Peggy, Becky, Ananias, Rheta, to him
his heirs & assigns forever.

10  I give & bequeath to my son Robin ["Jones" x-out],the following
negroes heretofore alloted to him Viz - Tom, Agury[Agnes?],
Albert, Mary Ann, Mariah, Godfrey, Boby, Gamba, Albert,
(of Jamimey) Chancy, Isaac, Sitgreaves, Washington, Frank,
Ellen, Rosanna, Robin, Altamont, Janet, Fanny, Sophia,
Polly, Will Boatswain, Janet, Hercules, Emeline, Hilliard,
to him his heirs & assigns forever.

11  I give & bequeath to my daughter Mary R. Ruffin
the following negroes, heretofore alloted to her Viz-
Lucy, Jane, Virginia, Diana & child, Prinnces, Henry Howerton,
Henry Duberry & Fred to her her heirs & assigns forever -

12  I give & bequeath to my daughter Sally her maid servant
Kate & Louisa her husband & children, to her her heirs & assigns forever - Having always
told Sally that she should have Hannah & her family & think
-ing that her mother cant conveniently do without the ser-
-vices of ["Hannahs" x-out] said family, I have provided in the sixth clause
of my this will that any of the negroes bequeathed in it may
be exchanged for negroes of equal value.  It is my will &
earnest desire that Hannahs family, shall, whenever my wife
consents to an exchange, be exchanged for a portion of the negroes to
be alloted to Sally in the final distribution of my negro property -

[page 3]
& that if she should not consent at all, she will take care to make my
promise to Sally good, when she distributes her own estate.

13th It is my will that the negroes not otherwise dis-
posed of shall be divided among my children
in such way as to make their respective shares of that kind
of property as nearly equal as may be, for which pur-
-pose the negroes heretofore given to Allen & those now speci-
-fically devised to my other children together with their
increase, are to be enummerated & valued in like man-
-ner as the undivided must be for a division & each child
except Allen is to take a portion which added to the portion
specifically devised to each as above, shall make it equal
["those heretofore given" x-out] to Allens ["s" added later], which is the largest -
& the remainder to be equally divided among all of them
Allen included.

14  I did promise to Mary, the wife of my son Pride, on her
death bed, that I would take care of her children - & have so far
endeavoured to do so - Now in order to carry out the promise fully -
It is my will & desire that one half of the negroes, which, by the foregoing
clauses of this my last will & testament have been ["alloted" x-out] given to
my said son Pride are to be held by him in trust & confidence
[x-out] for the children of the
said Mary, he having the full use & benefit of them the negroes during his
life & at his death, to descend to the said children or the survi-
-vers of them, to whom I give & bequeath them the sd Negroes, to
them & to their descendants forever -

15th  It is my wish that my Wife will so use
and devise the estate I have left her, especially
the Alabama property, as to help those of my
children that may most need her assistance

16th It is my will further that all property not
otherwise disposed of, shall be divided between
My sons Cadwallader Pride Robin and my
daughters Mary & Sally

   I appoint my sons Allen, Cadwallader, Pride
and Robin executors to this my last will and
testament
Witness
Paul C. Cameron                 Cadr Jones (seal)
Ed. Strudwick    Jurat
Jas. F. Cain     Jurat

[Will Book Volume G, page 251]
In the name of God Amen. I Cadwallader Jones of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina do make and ordain this my last Will and
Testament Viz:

1st I give and bequeath the farm on which I live in the County aforesaid
to my dear Wife her heirs and assigns forever together with all its appurtenances
the furniture in the house of every description the plate included - the farm
tools, the carriages and horses and every kind of Stock - together with the
Crop on hand to her heirs and assigns forever

2nd I give to my Sons Cadwallader and Robin all my lands in South
Carolina, to be divided between them, according to the line which has
been or may be hereafter agreed upon by them - to them their heirs
and assigns forever

3d I give to my daughter Mary R Ruffin the lot on which she lives
in Hillsboro containing about Six Acres and the lot opposite on
which one of her servants lives, to her her heirs and assigns forever

4th I give and bequeath to Rebecca my wife my son Pride Jones and
my daughters Mary R Ruffin and Sally R Jones all my lands in
the State of Alabama to be equally divided between them to them
their heirs and assigns forever

5th I give to my dear Wife thirty thousand dollars in money to be raised
on the bonds I now hold as far as they will go towards it the money due
me from McDowell & Wilkins[Whithers] of Mobile and the balance from the Crop now
being made on the Alabama plantation or the succeeding crop should
it be necessary which I do not anticipate. It is my Will and
desire that the said sum of $30.000 shall be invested by my
Executors in some safe monied institution, so that she may have
no trouble in its management - my expectation being that the
interest will be sufficient for her support in her usual style
of living this of course she will draw at [her] pleasure - nevertheless
I give her the said sum of $30.000 to dispose of as she
may think proper

6th I give to my said Wife the following negro slaves now living
on my farm in Orange County, N.C.  or an equal number from my other
negroes to fill up the voids by death (Viz) Jane Lucretia, Peter, Violet,
Charlotte, Jimmy, Betsy, Hannah, James, Tom, Patty, Virgil, Betsy & Rufus
(Hannah's children), Hampton Landema & her child, Margaret and Junius
to her her heirs and assigns forever = but in case she should prefer other
servants to those above mentioned it is my Will that she take any others

[Will Book Volume G, page 252]
from among my negroes of equal value, at her pleasure

7th Having heretofore conveyed to my son Allen forty two negroes named in
the deed of gift, to which refference can be had I hereby confirm the same
to him his heirs and assigns forever

8th I give and bequeath to my son Cadwallader the following negroes
heretofore alloted to him (Viz) Moses, Caroline, Mariah, Sharper, Franky,
Manerva, Herman, Lucretia, Herman [jr.], Milly, Adam, Nathan, Albert
(son of Mark), Charles(of Ned), Martha, Syphor, Harriet, Martha, Byron,
Alfred, Peggy, Fred, Sarah, Charles, Cuba, Toynette to him his heirs
and assigns forever

9th I give & bequeath to my son Pride the following negroes now
in his possession (Viz) Bartlett, Hetty, Ceasar, Mandelbert, Randal,
Peggy, Becky, Ananias, Rheta, to him his heirs and assigns forever

10 I give and bequeath to my son Robin the following negroes
heretofore allotted to him (Viz) Tom, Agnes, Albert, Mary Ann
Mariah, Godfrey, Boby, Gambo Albert, (of Gany) Chancy Isaac
Sitarowes, Washington, Frank, Ellen, Rosanna, Robin
Altamont, Janett, Fanny, Sophia, Polly, Will, Boatswain, Janet
Hercules Emmeline, Hilliard to him his heirs and assigns forever

11 I give and bequeath to my daughter Mary R Ruffin the
following negroes, heretofore allotted to her (Viz) Lucy, Jane
Virginia Diana & Child, Primas Henry Howerton Henry
Dewberry and Fred to her her heirs and Assigns forever

12 I give and bequeath to my daughter Sally her maid
servant Kate and Louisa her husband & children to her
[her] heirs and assigns forever having always told Sally that she
should have Hannah and her family and thinking that
her mother cant conveniently do without the services of said
family [I] have provided in the sixth clause of my this will
that any of the negroes bequeathed in it may be exchanged for
negroes of equal value. It is my Will and earnest desire that
Hannahs family shall whenever my Wife consents to an
exchange [be exchanged] for a portion of the negroes to be alloted to Sally in
the final distribution of my negro property and that if she
should not consent at all she will take care to make my
promise to Sally good when she distributes her own estate

13th It is my Will that the negroes not otherwise disposed of
shall be divided among my children in such way as to

[Will Book Volume G, page 253]
make their respective shares of that kind of property as nearly equal as
may be, for which purpose the negroes heretofore given to Allen and
those now specifically devised to my other children together with their increase
are to be enumerated and valued in like manner as the undivided
must be for a division and each child except Allen is to take a portion
which added to the portion specifically devised to each as above shall
make it equal to Allen which is the largest and the remainder to
be equally divided among all of them Allen included

14 I did promise to Mary, the wife of my son Pride on her death bed
that I would take care of her children and have so far endeavored
to do so Now in order to carry out fully the promise. It is my Will
and desire that one half of the negroes which, by the foregoing
clauses of this my last Will and Testament have been giving[sic] to
my said son Pride are to be held by him in trust and confidence
for the children of the said Mary he having the full use and
benefit of them the said negroes during his life and at his death
to descend to the said children or the survivors of them to whom
I give and bequeath them the said Negroes, to them and their
descendants forever

15 It is my wish that my Wife will so use and devise the estate I have
left her, especially the Alabama property, as to help those of my children
that may most need her assistance

16 It is my will further that all property not otherwise disposed of
shall be divided between My sons Cadwallader Pride Robin
and my daughters Mary and Sally

    I appoint my Sons Allen Cadwallader, Pride and Robin
executors to this my last Will and Testament
Witness                     Cad. Jones (seal)
Paul C. Cameron  }
Ed. Strudwick    }
Jas. F. Cain     }

                   Orange County Court Feruary Term 1861
The foregoing last Will and Testament of Cadwallader Jones
Senior deceased was duly proved in Open Court See minutes

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, page 251-253
Recorded Feb 1861

Estate papers comprise 46 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Jones, Cadwallader (1861)"  Testator died in February 1861.  "Testator left a large and valuable real estate situation in the States of Alabama, South Carolina & in the counties of Orange, Burke in the state of North Carolina."  By 1873, Robin Jones had died.  Children of Robin Jones are listed as Mary, Rebecca, Robin, Sarah and Lucy.

Mary Jones married P. B. Ruffin.
Sally Jones married Josiah Collins.

You will also note that he neglected to date the will, but it was recorded in 1861.

1870 North Carolina, Orange County, Hillsborough Twp, page 69, HH 286/286
Lucy Jones, 60f, black, keeping house, born NC;
Landonia Jones, 45f, black, born NC;
Godfrey Jones, 14m, black, born NC;
Birk Jones, 12m, black, born NC;
Anthony Jones, 10m, black, born NC;
Junius Jones, 8m, black, born NC.

Note: This family was distributed among the heirs.
Lucy to Mary R. Ruffin
Landonia "& her child" to Rebecca Jones
Godfrey to Robin
Birk = Mandelbert? to Pride

This family lived near the (white) family of Pride Jones in 1870.

1870 North Carolina, Orange County, Hillsborough Twp, page 69, HH 287/287

Spoon Jones, 45m,  black, born NC;
Margaret Jones, 30f, black, born NC;
Bettie Jones, 16f, black, born NC;
Rufus Jones, 12m, black, born NC;
Prescilla Jones, 8f, black, born NC;
Daniel Jones, 6m, black, born NC;
Lizzie Jones, 4f, black, born NC;

1870 South Carolina, York County, page 328, HH 1125/1138

Charles Long, 61m, black, born SC;
Cuba Long, 65f, black, born NC;

Living next door to Cadwallader Jones (b. 1813), son of
the above testator.

1880 South Carolina, York County, page 517A, HH 1125/1138

Gamber Jones, 45m, black, laborer, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;
Amy Jones, 40f, black, cook, at school, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;
Cads Jones, 9m, black, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;
Allen Jones, 7m, black, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;
Catch Jones, 5m, black, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;
Alic Jones, 3m, black, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;
Henry Jones, 1m, black, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;
Thomas Grimes, 28m, black, born SC, Fa: SC, Mo: SC;

1870 South Carolina, York County, page 329,

Attaman Jones, 50
Jannett Jones, 49
Attaman Jones, 20
William Jones, 18
Bosam Jones, 15
Peter Jones, 12
Hammond Jones, 10
Rocinda Jones, 26
Sophy Jones, 27
Mary Jones, 24
Betsy Jones, 13
Betty Jones, 4
Jennie Jones, 6/12

Note: Cadwallader Jones is on page 328.

[Estate Papers - Inventory]
List of property belong to the late
Cadwallder Jones and in my possession as
Executor of his last Will
Negros Will, Silvy, Lucretia, Peter, Violet
Charlotte, Betsey, Jimmy, Tom, Martha, Virgil
Betty, Rufus, Hampton, Landonia,[Landonia?] Godfrey,
Albert, Junius, Jane, Magraret, and Kitty.

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

