Will of Sarah F Durham - 8 Apr 1847

In the name of God Amen

I Sarah F. Durham a resident of Orange
County in the State of North Carolina being
weak in body, but of a sound disposing mind
and memory.  Thanks be to God for the same
and Knowing that it is appointed for all
mankind once to die ~~~
do make and ordain this to be my last
Will and Testament

First and principally I do commend my
Immortal spirit unto The hands of God my Savi
-or who gave it to me and my body to be Buried in a chris
-tian like manner at the discretion of my Executor
and being possessed of some worldly Estate
do will and dispose of the same in manner
and form Following Viz.

My desire is that all my Just debts be paid, of
which There is but few.

Item 1st I give and bequeath to my Executor The use of as much
of my estate as will desently ["wall The" x-out] wall in the grave
yard where my white Family is Buried on the place
where I now reside with suitable Tomb Stones atta
-chased to the grave of my Decd Daughter Harriett
A. Reeves grave and Also one other grave mean-
-ing The grave of Thomas M Durham Decd who is Inter
-ed at the grave yard on Collins Creek to be decently
Paled[See Note 1] in and suitable Tomb stones attached To
the same -

Item 2nd I do give and bequeath To my friend Manly Snipes
The sum of Three hundred dollars to be paid To
him out of the proceeds of my Estate, so soon as
The circumstances of my estate will admit after
my decease

Item 3rd I do give and bequeath to my beloved Aunt Tabitha
Riddle and my Cousin Elizabeth Riddle the
sum of one hundred dollars to be equally div
-ided between them so soon as the circumstances
of my estates will admit after my decease, and
if either of these my said Aunt or Cousin Should
die before my decease my desire is that the sur-
viving one shall inherit the whole of the said
sum of one hundred dollars at the proper
time as above alluded to

[page 2]
Item 4th I do give and bequeath to my Friend Bry-
ant M. Stroud The sum of one hundred
dollars to be paid to him out of my estate
so soon as the circumstances of my estate
will admit after my decease

Item 5th It is my desire That if Spencer S. Reeves should
be acquit[t]ed from The charge now Alleged against
him and he should live untill after my de-
cease my desire is that he be furnished yearly
with three suits of common clothing and com
mon diet sufficient to support him without
any extravagance to be allowed him in no respect
it is moreover my desire that my Executor
The Special Management of this case so far as it
respects Spencer S. Reeves.

Item 6th It is my desire after my decease That all my Negroes
in the first place to be allowed the privilege of
choosing such Men to Buy them as They may
prefer as owners Provided There can be fair
valuable prices obtained by such manner
of selling them - Provided nevertheless that
if fair and reasonable prices cannot be obtained
for the negroes in The manner as above stated
my Will is That They be sold on a credit by my
Executor at public Sale giving a reasonable cred
-it, so as that my Negro Man Simon and his
wife July may be sold together and not sepa-
-rated and that all the rest and residue of my
Perishable estate be sold as is above Expressed

Item 7 My will and desire is that after all the foregoing
bequests are fully paid and complyed with, and
there should any monies or other effects be rem-
-aining in the hands of my said Executor Then
and in that case my desire is that such residue

[page 3]
if any be paid over and Equally divided between
my two nephews Maurice T. McCauley and Samuel
S. McCauley equally share and share alike
and lastly I do hereby constitute and appoint
my worthy friend Manly Snipes my Executor
of this my last will and Testament revoking
all other wills by me heretofore made.

    In testimony of which I Sarah F Durham
do hereunto affix my hand and seal the
8th day of April AD. 1847

Signd seald &             Sarah F Durham (seal)
delivered in presence of
B. Stroud      }
Wilson Atwater }  Jurant
                      Exr. qualified

[Will Book Volume F, page 422]
    In the name of God Amen

I Sarah F Durham a resident of Orange
County in the State of North Carolina being
weak in body but of a sound disposing
mind and memory thanks be to God for
the same and Knowing that it is appointed
for all mankind once to die do make
and ordain this to be my last Will and
Testament ~

First and principally I do commend my
Immortal spirit unto the hands of God my
Saviour who gave it to me and my body to
be buried in a Christian like manner
at the discretion of my executor and
being possessed of some worldly estate
do will & dispose of the same in manner
and form following, Viz.

My desire is that all my Just debts be paid
of which there is but few

Item 1st I give & bequeath to my Executor the
use of as much of my estate as will decently
wall in the grave yard where my white
family is buried on the place where I
now reside with suitable tomb stones
attached to the grave of my decd daughter
Harriett A Reeve's grave And also
one other grave meaning the grave of
Thomas M Durham decd who is Inter[r]ed
at the grave yard on Collin's Creek to
be decently Paled in and suitable
Tomb=stones attached to the same

Item 2nd I do give and bequeath to my friend
Manly Snipes the sum of three hundred
dollars to be paid to him out of the proceeds
of my estate so soon as the circumstances
of my estate will admit after my
decease

Item 3rd I do give and bequeath to my

[Will Book Volume F, page 423]
beloved aunt Tabitha Riddle and my Cousin
Elizabeth Riddle the sum of one hundred dollars
to be equally divided between them so soon as
the circumstances of my Estates will admit
after my decease and if either of these my
said aunt or cousin should die before
my decease my desire is that the Surviving
one shall inherit the whole of the said sum
of one hundred dollars at the proper time
as above alluded to ~~~~

Item 4th I do give & bequeath to my friend Bry=
ant M Stroud the sum of one hundred dollars
to be paid to him out of my estate
so soon as the circumstances of my estate
will admit after my decease

Item 5th It is my desire that if Spencer S Reeves
should be acquitted from the charge now
alleged against him & he should live
until after my decease my desire is that
he be furnished yearly with three suits
of common clothing & common diet
sufficient to support him without any
extravagance to be allowed him in no res=
pect it is moreover my desire that my
executor the Special management
of this case so far as it respects Spen=
cer S Reeves

Item 6th It is my desire after my decease that all
my Negroes in the first place to be allowed the
privilege of choosing such men to buy them
as they may prefer as owners provided there
can be fair valuable prices obtained
by such manner of selling them ~~~
provided nevertheless that if fair & reas=
onable prices cannot be obtained for
the negroes in the manner as above stated
my will is that they be sold on a credit
by my Executor at public sale giving

[Will Book Volume F, page 424]
a reasonable credit so as that my negro
man Simon and his wife July may be
sold together and not Separated and
that all the rest & residue of my perishable
estate be sold as is above expressed

Item 7 My will & desire is that after all the fore=
going bequests are fully paid & complyed
with and there should any monies
or other effects be remaining in the
hands of my said Executor, then
and in that case my desire is that
such residue, if any, be paid over
and equally divided between my two neph=
ews Maurice T McCauley & Samuel S
McCauley equally share & share alike

    And lastly I do hereby constitute and
appoint my worthy friend Manly
Snipes my Executor of this my last
will and testament, revoking all other
wills by me heretofore made

    In testimony of which I Sarah F Durham
do hereunto affix my hand and seal the
8th day of April AD 1847

Signed sealed & delivered   Sarah f Durham (seal)
in presence of
    B Stroud
    Wilson Atwater

               Orange County Nov Term 1849
The execution of the foregoing last will and
Testament of Sarah F Durham decd
was duly proved in Open Court by the
Oaths of B Strowd and Wilson Atwater
the subscribing witnesses thereto & ordered
to be recorded  At the same time
Manly Snipe the Executor therein named
appeared in open Court & qualified
accordingly
                   Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume F, pages 422-424
Recorded Nov 1848

Note 1: Paled in the context means a type of fencing.

Estate Papers comprise 19 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Durham, Sarah F (1848)".

Also note an article from the North-Carolinian (Fayetteville)
Saturday October 30, 1847

        THE ORANGE MURDER.
                From the Greensborough Patriot.

        Guiford Superior Court.

    On Tuesday Spencer S. Reeves was
tried for the murder of his sister, Harriet
A Reeves.--The murder was committed
on the 13th of January last, in the county
of Orange, whence the trial had been re-
moved to Randolph, and again, from Ran-
dolph to Guilford.

    Mr Solicitor Jones and Mr Waddell ap-
peared as counsel for the State ; Messrs.
Morehead, Norwood and Nash for the prisoner.

    The evidence was circumstantial, but
carried to the mind inevitable conviction
of the prisoner's guilt. We give the main
facts disclosed on the examination of the
witnesses.

    Spencer S Reeves, the prisoner, and
his sister, Harriet A. Reeves, the deceas-
ed, lived with their mother, Sarah Dur-
ham, they three composing the entire
white family. The black family consisted
of two men, a woman, and a girl about
twelve years old. It was proved that on
the afternoon when the murder was perpe-
trated, one of the negro men, Simon, was
at work in the new ground about a mile
from the house, where he usually took with
him his breakfast and dinner and staid all
day. The other negro man, Jesse, was
sick,. and had been for some time, and was
proven by Mrs. Durham to have been in
the house about the time the murder was
accomplished at the stable.

    The prisoner had been at Hillsborough
the early part of the week, where, he after-
wards said, he had volunteered, or enlisted.
It was proved that he stopped at three
several places in the neighborhood of his
mother's, as he returned home, on Wednes-
day the 13th January ; that he wore a cer-
tain overcoat, which was found next day
hanging up in the cutting-room adjoining
the stable where the dead body was found;
and that he had with him a black bottle
with a corn-stalk stopper, which was also
found next day in a barrel in the cutting-
room. He stopped at Mr Andrews', some
three quarters of a mile from his mother's,
about 1 o'clock in the afternoon.
and left in about half an hour. He here drank out
the last of his liquor having procured a
half pint three miles back, from which some
four or five persons besides had each tak-
en a dram at the time he got it.

    It was proved by the unfortunate mo-
ther, Mrs. Durham, that Spencer came
home about three o'clock on that day
said he would go up stairs and go to sleep.
His sister, Harriet, told him to go into his
own room. But he went up stairs ; and
returned with a bridle, Harriet told him

he should not have the bridle, as he had
wasted enough of her things already ; and
took the bridle out of his hands. He said
he would go to the stable and would have
a horse and bridle too ; and went out, his
sister going with him. - Witness looked
through the window and saw them walk-
ing side by side, about half way to the
blocks, -- the blocks being about half way
to the stables, which are situated some-
thing like a 100 yards from the house. Soon
afterwards, witness walked out towards
the stables. but became so faint she had
to stop; but she called Harriet, supposing
she might have gone to a neighbor's, where
she had spoken of going that morning.
She returned into the house, and the sick
negro, Jesse, came in, he said to see massa
Spencer, learning he had returned. Wit-
ness, had not been in the house long, be-
fore, on receiving some information from
the servant girl, she hastened out and
went to the stables as fast as she could,
where she saw her daughter lying dead in
the stable; she called her, and swooned
away herself, or was so confused that she
recollected nothing distinctly for some
time afterwards. All this occurred with-
in half an hour or less from the time that
the prisoner and Harriet left the house.

    The overcoat and the bloody cutting-
knife were produced in Court by the coro-
ner of Orange county. The deceased was
found lying on her back; the arms stretched
out at full length; the neck cut half off.
A bruise appeared, as though a blow had
been struck, diagonally across the nose,
just above the eye, and on the temple.
The knife had been unscrewed from the
cutting box; and was found lying about a
foot above the head of the deceased. The
screw taps, &c. which had attached the
knife to the box, were found in the litter.

    About an hour by sun, Mr Stroud, who
lives in sight of Mrs Durham's on the road
towards Hillsboro, while working in his
new ground, heard the clatter of horse's
feet in the direction of his own house
and that of Mrs Durham. Spencer Reeves
soon came in sight, riding at half speed,
bare back on one of his sister's horses, the
other horse following him. He slackened
his pace to a fast trot as he passed through
the new ground -- passed within about
twenty steps of witness, who hailed him
and asked how all were at house -- he re-
plied, "all well." Witness saw blood on
his face, and mentioned the fact. On
being asked if he had not been the sworn
enemy of Reeves and his father, witness
said he had no ill will towards Spencer, but
he did not approve of their conduct.

    Another witness, Cyntha Loyd, met
Reeves about seven or eight miles from
home, riding bare-back in a sweeping trot
towards Hillsboro. His face looked pale
-his face and hair looked like he had
been sweating and wiped it off, or had just
washed. Told her that he was going to
uncle Fred. Reeves's to stay that night.
He had seen witness the day before told
her that he had volunteered ;--that he had
lost his sister's saddle blanket, but it made
no difference while she could have Pres.
Snipes sitting up courting her every two
or three days. Witness asked him if his
sister was willing for him to go to Mexico ;
replied that he did not care ;----if they did
not mind he would serve them as he did
Ruffin Durham. [ The way he served
Ruffin Durham was not allowed to be given
in evidence ; but it is said that he was a
suitor, and that he, Reeves, shot him.
Other threats were proved upon the prison-
er,--such as, that if Presley Snipes did
marry his sister it should do neither of
them any good, as he was courting her for
property ;--before his sister should marry
a d---d rake, or any person, he would kill
her, for he had lost his property on her
account, &c.]

    Witness George Laws, deputy sheriff
of Orange, assisted to arrest Reeves, in
Hillsboro, the night of the 13th, about 11
o'clock. . Met him without knowing him,
in a shady place on the sidewalk, walking
close to the palings -- asked who he was,
but received no answer. Asked him
again ; when the high sheriff, Mr Turren-
tine, came up and said, " this is the man
-- lay hold of him." Prisoner then asked
what was the matter. The sheriff told him
his sister had been murdered, and he was
suspected of the murder. Prisoner swore
it was a lie, and asked who fetched the
news. He was told that it was Jones
Powel. He said, "Jones Powell -- if that
is all the evidence they've got, I can soon
do away with his evidence." He was
then taken to Mr Nichols' tavern, and
some questions were asked him -- he said
they only wanted to trap him.-- Witness
told him they did not wish to trap him,
and advised him not to answer any ques-
tions. -- Prisoner asked Turrentine how
they said he did it! Mr Turrentine re-
plied, they said he did it with a scythe-
blade. Prisoner said " that is the truth "
-- but immediately said, " no, no, it is a
lie. " Witness told him that they had
heard there was blood seen on him as he
came to Hillsboro, and he (wittness) would
give him a fair hack. He denied that
there was blood on him   Another officer,
Mr McCollum, held the candle while wit-
ness examined ;-- found no blood on his
outside clothes. But on turning up his
left coat sleeve, he discovered a stain of
blood on his shirt, where an attempt had
apparently been made to wash it out.
The shirt sleeve was very dirty, but that
portion cleaner, as if it had been washed
and rubbed down, yet not obliterating the
stain. Prisoner denied that it was blood.
Witness then turned up the right coat
sleeve, and found a spot of blood, with
spatters branching off from it, and said,
"Spencer, there's blood." He looked
down, but made no reply. While con-
ducting him to jail the prisoner inquired
if they would not have to prove the crime
upon him before they could hurt him.
Witness told him they would.

    Here the testimony was closed.

    The jury retired ; and after an absence
of about five minutes returned a verdict of
Guilty.

    Outrages of this unnatural and horrible
description are so rare, that we will be ex-
cused for the space occupied in this detail

of circumstances. A brother murdering a
sister ;-- an aged, diseased and feeble
mother called upon to give evidence against
an only son for slaying an only daughter,
are occurrences which exhibit the hideous
passions of the human heart in a fearful
light, and show something of the deep un-
utterable anguish with which one criminal
act may pierce the maternal bosom. The
prisoner is a man of rather well looking
person ; fall round face ; and appeared
well dressed. His features were either
so fully influenced by a hardened heart,
or so well governed by a bull-dog will, that
nothing,-- not even the presence of his mother
on the witness' stand, or the ex-
hibition of the bloody knife with which he
perpetrated the foul deed,-- wrought much
change in the expression of his counten-
ance. He heard the verdict of " guilty "
rendered by the jury with apparent indif-
ference. He is said to be not over thirty
years of age, and his short career has been
marked by dissipation and many exhibi-
tions of ungoverned passion and malicious
disposition, as well as acts of crime. God
knoweth his heart--may its sensibilities
be better cultivated before his state is
changed from the passing to the eternal !

The Raleigh Register Saturday 13 May 1848, page 3

                    Execution

    We learn from "Greensboro' Patriot" that
the sentence of the law was, on the 5th int. execu-
ted upon Spencer S. Reeves, in presence of an im-
mense multitude of people from that and the adjoin-
ing Counties.  It is said that he exhibited to the
last a calmness and carelessness of conduct aston-
ishing for a human being in his situation.  He made
no remarks to the people around the gallows, but
talked awhile to the sheriff and a negro man who
belonged to the family.  He stepped off from the
cart, before it could be driving from under him--
thus of his own will accelerating his exit into eter-
nity.

[Estate Papers - Inventory]
An Inventory of the personal property of Sarah F Durham
deceased which came to the hand of Manly Snipe Executor

Cash Four Dollars and tencents
one negro man named Simon about 58 years of age
one  do   do  ----  Jesse ----  28  do
one  do  woman do   July  ----  58  do
one  do  girl  do   Maria ----  13  do
Three bedsteads and furniture, one part of Curtan bedsteads
[sundry articles]
[Not actually dated, but recorded Nov 1848, page 372]

[Estate Papers - Estate Sale page 1]
A list of property sold by M. Snipes Exr. of Sarah
F. Durham deceased October 27th 1848
[sundry articles]
[page 6]
[sundry articles]
Article                Purchaser      Amount
1 Negro Man Simon      M Snipes       175.00
1  do   Woman July      do  do        166.66 2/3
1  do   Man Jesse      Charles Yancy  400.00
1  do   girl Maria     Wilson Atwater 441.66 2/3


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

