Will of William Lipscomb - 10 Mar 1858

[page 1, Loose Will, faded]
In the name of God Amen Know all men by this presents
that I William Lipscomb of Orange County and State of North
Carolina being of Sound mind and Memory but considering
the uncertainty of my Earthly Existance[sic] do make and constitute
this my last Will and Testament in manner and Form as
follows that is it say first that Executor herein after named
shall pay out of my money and affects all my Just and Lawful Debts
To Whom soever owing out of the of first moneys that may come
in this hands as A part or parcel of my Estate then in the second
place I confirm all the Gifts made to Charles Holeman and
his wife Elizabeth Either by Deed or otherwise I also Give Charles
Holeman and his wife Elizabeth their heirs of[sic] assigns after my
Death two negro Slaves namely Roan and her Youngest Child
Eliza With all of there[sic] future increase in the third place
I confirm all the Gifts made to Joseph Woods and his wife
Either by Deed or other wise I also Give Joseph Woods and wife
Nancy theire[sic] heirs or assigns after my Death Two negro Slaves
namely Lee and Emaly[Emily] first Daughter of Roan. In the fourth
place I Give and bequeath to my Grand Son William Woods his heirs
of[sic] assigns after my death that tractt of Land lying partly
in Person County North Carolina and partly in Orange
County North Carolina Known as the Holeman Tractt of Land
whereon William Holeman late of Person Dyed Adjoining
the Lands of James Holeman A. Gray Paul C Cameron and
others containing Eight hundred and Twenty nine Acres
More or less Fifthly I confirm all the Gifts made to
John C Douglass and his wife Rachel my Daughter Either by
deed or other wise and after my Death I Give to John C Douglass
and his wife Rachel Their heirs or assigns Two negro Slaves namely
Dan River Nancy and hir Daughter Fanny with future increase
Sixthly I Give and Devise to my Grand Son William Lipscomb
his heirs or assigns for ever after my Death Two negro Slaves
Tom and Rasmus my sorrel mare Betsy and my shot Gun
                       turn over

[page 2]
   ~~   ~~  Brought over & continued

Also the Sum of Eight Thousand Dollars in cash to be paid
By my Executor out of monies which will come in hands
of Executor from Bonds notes accpts due me as said Grand Sons
William Lipscomb absolute property In the Seventh place
I confirm all Gifts heretofore made to my son John D. Lipscomb
Either by Deed or otherwise I also Give and Devise to my Son
John D. Lipscomb his heirs or assigns for over[sic] after my Death
five other slaves namely Peter Henderson Edom Green
and Anderson the Miller together with all my stock of horses
Muels[sic] Cattle hogs and Sheep all my house hold and Kitchen
Furniture Mills and Every thing partaining there To three waggons
all my Farming Toals of every Description three Log chains
Two Cross Cut saws one Set of Black smith Tooles and the Crop
on hand or which may be Growing at the time of my Death
I Give to my Son John D Lipscomb the residue of Every thing
that I am In possession of at the time of my Death which I have
not specially named Either by deed or in this my last will
and Testament or which will not be here after named --
and Lastly I have Constituted and appointed my son John D.
Lipscomb my Lawful Executor to all Intents and purposes to
Execute and carry out this my Last Will and Testament and
According to the True Intent of the same and as A compensation
For the Trouble and Expenses of attending to and car[r]ying out this
my last Will and Testament that Executor John D Lipscomb
retain out of moneys which may come in hands from my
monied Afficts[Effects] as Executor five Hundred Dollars as a full
Compensation for his Trouble and Expense for attending and
settling this my Last Will and Testament I Give to my son John D.
Lipscomb the Residue of Every Thing that I have not specifically [will book: "Specially"]
named in this my last Will and Testament if any money should
be collected more than will pay. Gran son William Lipscomb
Eight Thousand dollars and Executor five Hundred I give said residue
to John D Lipscomb I do mo[r]eover Declare this to be my Last
Will and Testament Rovoking[sic] all others and Declaring them
to be void above is whereunto I have set my hand & seal

[page 3]
In Witness where unto I have Set my hand and seal ----
this 10th day of March AD 1858     Wm Lipscomb Seal
Signed in present of us
P B Ruffin    Jurat
S M Link      Jurat

[Will Book Volume G, page 469]
In the name of God Amen
Know all men by this presents that I William
Lipscomb of Orange County and State of North
Carolina being of Sound mind and Memory but
considering the uncertainty of my earthly existince
do make and constitute this my last will and
testament in manner and form as follows
That is it say first that --- Executor hereinafter
named shall pay out of my money and effects all my
Just and lawful debts to whomsoever owing
out of the of first moneys that may come in this hands
as a part or parcel of my estate in the second
place I confirm all the gifts made to Charles
Haleman and his wife Elizabeth either by Deed
or otherwise I also give Charles Haleman and
his wife Elizabeth their heirs and assigns after my
death two negros namely Roan and her Youngest
Child Eliza with all of their future increase

In the third place I Confirm all the gifts made to
Joseph Woods and his wife either by deed or
otherwise I also Give Joseph Woods and wife
Nancy their heirs or assigns after my death two
negro Slaves namely Gee and Emily first daughter
of Roan.

In the fourth place I Give and bequeath to my
Grand son William Woods his heirs (of)[sic] assignes
after my death that tract of land lying
partly in Person County North Carolina
and partly in Orange County North Carolina
known as the Haleman tract of land whereon
William Haleman late of Person died adjoin
ing the lands of James Haleman A Gray
Paul C Cameron and others containing
Eight hundred and twenty nine acres
more or less

Fifthly I Confirm all the Gifts made to John C
Douglass and his wife Rachel my Daughter
either by Deed or other wise and after my

[Will Book Volume G, page 470]
death I Give to John C Douglass and his wife
Rachel their heirs or assigns two negro Slaves
namely Dan River Nancy and her Daughter
Fanny with future increase

Sixthly I Give and devise to my Grand Son William
Lipscomb to his heirs or assigns for ever after my
death two negro Slaves Tom and Rasmus my
sorrel mare Bety and my shot Gun also the Sum
of Eight Thousand Dollars in cash to be paid
by my Executor out of monies which will come
in hand of Executor from bonds notes accounts
due me as said Grand Son William Lipscomb
absolute property

In the Seventh place I confirm all gifts heretofore made
to my son John D. Lipscomb either by Deed or
otherwise I also Give and devise to my Son
John D Lipscomb his heirs or assigns for ever
after my death five other slaves namely
Peter Henderson Edom Green and Anderson
the Miller together with all my stock of horses
mules cattle hogs and Sheep all my house
hold and Kitchin furniture Mills and everything
partaining thereto three wagons all my
farming tools of every description thee log
chains two cross cut Saws one Set of
Black smith tools and the crop on hand
or which may be Growing at the time
of my death: I Give to my Son John D
Lipscomb the residue of everything that
I am in possession of at the time of my death
which I have not specially named either
by deed or in this my last Will and testament
or which will not be [blot out] hereafter named
and lastly I have constituted and appointed
my son John D. Lipscomb my lawful executor
to all intents and purposes to execute and
carry out this my last will and testament
and according to the true intent of the same

[Will Book Volume G, page 471]
And as a compensation for the Trouble and
Expenses of attending to and carrying out
this my last will and Testament that == Executor
John D Lipscomb retain out of monies which may
come in hand from my monied efficts as
Executor five Hundred dollars as a full
compensation for his trouble and expenses
for attending and settling this my last
Will and testament: I Give to my Son John
D Lipscomb the residue of Everything that
I have not Specially named in this my last
Will and testament if any money should
be collected more than will pay. Grand son
William Lipscomb Eight Thousand dollars
and Executor five Hundred I give said
residue to John D Lipscomb I do moreover
declare this to be my last Will and testament
revoking all others and declaring them to
be void above is whereunto I have set
my hand & seal

    In Witness whereunto I have Set my hand and
seal this 10th day of March AD 1858
                        Wm Lipscomb Seal
Signed in presince }
of us              }

P B Ruffin
S M Link

Orange County Court July Term 1895
The Execution of the foregoing will was
duly proved in open Court per minutes
of Said Court

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 469-471
Recorded Jul 1865

Original, loose will is very, difficult to read, so in addition, the will book version is included.

Note: The clerk who recorded the will book copy wrote lower-case "a" in place of "o"  This appears to be simply bad handwriting and not a reflection of dialect, nor did this defect appear in the original will.  These are transcribed as "o".

Estate papers comprise 186 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Lipscomb, William (1866)".  Many receipts and notes with various court proceedings to collect them, etc.

"William Lipscomb died after the surrender in 1865"  He was confined to home two or three years before his death.  For Orange County, the surrender took place on 27 Apr 1865.  By 3 Jun 1865 the Inventory of his estate, taken by John D Lipscomb was complete.

John D. Lipscomb married 1) Susan Halman and married 2) Ann Woods on May 1865 to Ann Woods. He died 15 Oct 1874.

Many of the estate papers concern William Lipscomb, son of John D. Lipscomb, and grandson of the testator.  He was very sick in Oct 1862 serving in the CSA Army in Virginia.  The testator wanted the grandson's father (John D.) to fetch him home.  John D. refused.  Joseph Woods, brother of John D.'s wife, went and fetched him home. There are depositions, stories, etc.  If someone has interest in this lineage, a careful reading of these papers may be a good idea.

Although the will, written in 1858, contains references to slaves, the testator died after the surrender in 1865, thus slaves were no longer property of the estate.

1850 US Census, North Carolina, Orange County, District 1, page 238
William Lipscomb, 64m, Farmer, RE$4,500, born VA
John Lipscomb, 33m, Farmer, born NC
Susan Lipscomb, 30f, born NC
William Lipscomb, 8m, born NC,
Becca Lipscomb, 6f, born NC;
Margaret Lipscomb, 3f, born NC;
Thomas Lipscomb, 6/12, born NC

[Estate Papers - Inventory 3 Jun 1865]

An Inventory of the personal Property belonging
to the Estate of William Lipscomb Sr. decd. which
came to the hands of John D. Lipscomb his
Executor taken the 3rd of June 1865

[2 pages of sundry articles omitted]

Also the following Negroes
              Viz:
Edem               Erasmus      Peter
Green              Emily        Thomas
Nancy              Eliza
Frannie            Martha
Smith              Mary
Rowan              Anderson

[Estate Papers - Statement by Soleman Allen 1 Nov 1876]

         Statement of Soleman Allen to be read in evi=
dence in the case Lipscomb Woods pending in
Orange Superior Court as agree upon below.

    Soleman Allen having been duly sworn
States as follows.

    That he married Narcissa Woods daugh=
ter of James Woods late of Orange County
who removed to Wake County and died
there ["last" x-out] in Oct 1875;

    That Levin C Gray married her sister Mary
R Woods.

    That their brother Lambert Woods son of
said James Woods was Killed in the battle
of Seven Pines in 1862, never having been mar=
ried, leaving his said two sister and his
brother James Woods Jr his only heirs at
law: and James Jr was Killed in battle in
1863 at Malve[r]n Hill, intestate and never
having been married.

    That James Woods gave to John D Lipscomb
of Orange County a note for $1200 as guardian
of his own children bearing date Feby 15th 1858
with Jno P. H Russ his security.

    In 1867 John Lipscomb was pressing Mr. Woods
for the payment of said note and in order to pay
in the following arrangement was mane
between the parties

    John Lipscomb was anxious to get a tract of
land in Orange County which had belonged to
said Lambert Woods to settle his daughter Re=
becca upon who has married a Mr. Russell

[page 2]
And after some negotiation among the
parties, the following agreement was entered
into and carried into execution:

    Solomon Allen & wife and Levin C Gray
& wife were to make deeds for said ["Levin" x-out] Lambert Woods
Land to John D Lipscomb, which he agreed
to take in full satisfaction and payment
of his said $1200 note on James Woods with the
interest upon it.

    And said James Woods induced his two
daughters and their husbands to execute said
deeds to Mr. Lipscomb by promising to convey to
them other lands in Wake County in the place
of their said Lands inherited from their brother
Lambert.

    And another part of the arrangement
was this James Woods had claimed that
he was the heir at law of his son Lambert
and had acted under that belief and took
the possession of ["his" x-out] Lambert's tract of land and held
it for some three years as owner and ac=
tually made a deed for it to his daughter
Mrs. Mary R Gray.

    And the said James Woods declared
that he would not enter into the arrange=
ment with Mr Lipscomb or do any thing to
induce his daughters and their husbands
to do it, unless John D Lipscomb would re=

[page 3]
lease said James Wood[s] from all responsi=
bility as surety ["for upon a note" x-out] for Joseph
Woods upon a note for $1000 which said Woods
had executed to William Lipscomb Sr father
of said John D. Lipscomb.

    Which release was executed by said John
D Lipscomb as executer[sic] of his father William
Lipscomb, which bears date 25th of September
1867, and was exhibited to this affiant and
his brother in law Levin C Gray, upon the return
of said James Woods from Hillsborough
where the same was executed by Mr. Lipscomb.

    And the said James Woods did convey to
his said two daughter Land to their satisfac=
tion to Wake County in the place of the Lambert
Woods Tract And this witness is the absolute sole owner of
of[sic] the part conveyed to this wife by deed from her

    Subscribed & sworn to before me
the 1st Nov 1876           x Sol. J. Allen
        Geo Laws ClC

    It is agreed that the above statement of Solemen
J. Allen shall be read in evidence for the defendant
in the trial of the suit of William Lipscomb against
Joseph Woods now pending in Orange Superior Court
subject to legal excepting to incompetency --- and pro=
vided also the plaintiff shall agree to its being used as
evidence
                           Jas. A. Graham Atto for Plff
                           Norwood & Webb Atts for Deft

[Estate Papers - Deposition, answers by Ann Lipscomb, widow of the testator, 3 May 1876,
by A. K. Umstead, JP]

Quest 7 Did not Wm Lipscomb senr [the testator] give Wm Woods, Sr
of Joseph a negro boy called "Jim Lee", after
Wm. Lipscomb Jr. was brought home from the Army?

He did not Jim Lee was willed to Thomas Lipscomb
as I understand it.

[Note: Thomas Lipscomb is not a legatee, and no slave by this name is mentioned in the will]

10 What was the worth of the negro boy "Jim Lee"?
Was he not worth $1000.00?

I do not know what he was worth.

11 Was not his negro boy given in consideration of
the service rendered by Joseph Woods.

He was not.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

