Will of John Reeves - 9 Dec 1846

In the name of God amen I John Rieves of Orang
County and State of Northcarolina being weak in boddy but
of Sound disposing mind and memory Cawling to mind the
mortality of my boddy knowing it is appointed for all men
once to die do make and ordane this my last will and testament
as tutching Such worldley estate whear with it is pleas god to bless
me in this life I give and be queth in the fol[l]owing manner
and form

Item that my Executor hearafter named Shall provid for my
boddy a decent buriel Sutable to the wishes of my Relations and friends
and pay all ["charges" x-out] funriel expences together with my Just debts
how So ever and to hoomsoever owing out of the monies that may
first come in to hand as a part or parcel of my estate

Item I give to my Sone John Rieves one negro girl named Mary
one boy by the name of Jessy one bed and furniture one Cow and Calf

Item I give to my daughter Marah Andrews one negro girl
nan'd Filis also one tract of land adjoining the lands of
Robbert Cheek Lacey Loyd and others containing fortey
two acres Moore or less

Item I give to my daughter Priscillar Rieves one negro boy nan'd
Murphrey two fether beads and furnitur[e] one hors worth Six-
ty dollars one cow and calf one chest one Sow and pigs one
flax wheel one cottin wheal one ovin and Pot

Item I Give to my daughter Marthey Rieves one negro girl
nan'd Elin one hors worth Sixtey dollars one Cow and
Calf one Sow and pigs eight dollars to by hir a Chest
two fether beds and furniture one Pot and ovin one
Cottin wheel one flax wheal

[page 2]
Item I give to my daughter Delila Rieves one negro girl nan'd
Moriah one hors worth Sixty dollars one Cow and calf one Sow and
pigs two fether beds and furnitur[e] eight dollars to purchase hir a chest
one cottin wheel one flax wheel

Item I give to my daughter Sina[?] Moore one negro girl namd
Sarah

Item I give to my three daughters Priscila Marthe and Delila the plant
ation on which I now liv So long as they liv Single and in case e[i]ther
of them Should marey the Land is to be held by the other two
and if the Second one mary the place is held by the other Single
one and in case She maries the Land is to be Sold and divided
be twixt them thre each to Shear and Shear alike

Item It is my desire that my daughter Tabitha Kirk Shall liv
with my three Single daughters and I leave in charge with
them one negro boy nam'd Jerry Solong as my daughter Tabith[a]
Kirk Shall live with them and after hir death the boy Jerry
be Sold and the monies arising from the Sail thearof to be equely
divided among my Children each to Shear and Shear a like

Item I give to my grand children Nancey Kirk, John Kirk
Alvis Kirk, Presley Kirk one Hundred dollars to be equal[l]y
divided be twixt them

Item it is my will that the rest of my negros that hav[e]
not bin[been] namd Shall be Equal[l]y divided be twixt my
Children to wit John Rievis my daughters Marah Andr-
ews Priscila Rievs Martha Rievs Delila Rievs and Sinah
Moore

Item It is my will that the plantation that I purchased from
my brother James Rievs with all the balance of my prop-
erty to be Sold after my death and the monies arising thear

[page 3]
from to be equal[l]y divided be twixt my after namd
Children John Rievs my daughter Priscila Rieves Martha Rievs
Delila Rievs Marah Andrews Sinah Moore each to Shear and Shear
alike

Item the Negros that I gave to my Sone John Shall return to my
after named Children in case he ["Should have" x-out] or his lawful
heirs Shall never come after them to wit my daughter Polly
Andrews Priscila Rieves Martha Rievs Delila Rievs Sina Moore
each to Shear and Shear alike

Alike I a[l]so constitute and appoint my trusty friend and
Sone John Rieves and my Sonin law Chesley Moore Executors
to this my last will and testament in witness whare of
I have hear unto Set my hand and Seal this the 9 December
1846
teste S. D. Oldham Jurat               John Rieves (Seal)
John Moore Jurat
Geo. W. Purify

Whereas I John Reaves have made my last will
& Testament in writing as above expressed, on the
9th day of December 1846. But as circumstances
have now materially changed, I do by this writing
which I hereby declare to be a codicil to my said
will, to be construed as a part thereof.

I will & direct that in addition to what I have
devised to my son John Reaves that he also
have in place of Mary (now dead) a negro
girl by the name of Jane together with
her increase

I further will & direct that the increase
of the negro girls given to my daughters

[page 4]
Mary Andrews, Sina Moore, & Martha and
Delilah, go to those of my said daughters
to whom the mother of such
increase has already been devised.

Should any of the negroes that I
have devised or given to any of my
children by will, die in my lifetime,
I hereby direct that the value of
said negro or negroes be made up
to them out of the negroes that
have been left to be divided

I further direct that my daughters
Priscilla Martha & Delilah have out
of my estate one years allowance
of provisions for themselves & for
Tabitha Kirk if living.

In testimony whereof, I hereunto set my
hand & seal this the 22nd of September
A.D. 1853

Signed Sealed & declared
by the said John Reaves to be a    John Reeves (Seal)
codicil or part of his last
will & testament in presence of
us who at his request & in his
presence do subscribe our names
as witnesses

Geo. W. Purify
Thos. D. Oldham Jurat       Recorded

[Will Book Volume G, page 75]
In the name of God amen

    I John Reeves of Orange County and State
of North Carolina being weak in body but of sound
disposing mind and memory cauling to mind
the mortality of my body knowing it is appointed
for all men once to die do make and ordain this
my last will and testament as touching such
worldly estate wherewith it is pleas God to bless
me in this life I give and bequeath in the following
manner and form

Item that my Executor hereafter named Shall provide
for my body a decent burial suitable to the wishes
of my relations and friends and pay all funeral
expenses together with my Just debts howsoever
and to whomsoever owing out of the moneys that
may first come in to hand as a part or parcel
of my estate

Item I give to my son John Reeves one negro girl named
Mary one boy by the name of Jesse one bed and furniture
one Cow and Calf

Item I give to my daughter Marah Andrews one negro
girl nan'd Phillis also one tract of land

[Will Book Volume G, page 76]
adjoining the lands of Robert Cheek Lacey Lloyd and
others containing forty two acres more or less

Item I give to my daughter Priscillar Reeves one Negor[sic] boy
named Murphey two feather beds and furniture on[e] horse
worth Sixty dollars one cow and calf one chest on[e] Sow
and pigs one flax wheel one cotton wheel one ovin and Pot

Item I Give to my daughter Martha Reeves one negro girl
named Ellen one horse worth Sixty dollars one Cow and
Calf one Sow and pigs eight dollars to by her a chest
two feather beds and furniture one pot and oven
one Cotton wheel one flax wheel

Item I give to my daughter Delila Reeves one nigor girl
named Mariah one horse worth Sixty dollars one Cow
and Calf one sow and pigs two feather beds and
furniture eight dollars to purchase her a chest one
Cotton wheel one flax wheel

Item I give to my daughter Jinny[Sina?] Moore one negro
girl named Sarah

Item I give to my three daughters Priscilla Martha
and Delilah the plantation on which I now live
so long as they live single and in case either of
them Should marry the land is to be held by
the other two and if the second one marry the
place is held by the other single one and in
case She marrys the land is to be sold and divided
betwixt them three each to share and share alike

Item It is my desire that my daughter Tabitha Kirk
shall live with my three single daughters and
I leave in charge with them one Negro boy named
Jerry so long as my daughter Tabitha Kirk shall live with
them and after her death the boy Jerry be sold
and the monies arrising from the sale thereof to be
equally divided among my Children each to share
and share a like

Item I give to my grand children Nancy Kirk, John
Kirk Alvis Kirk Presley Kirk one Hundred dollars
to be equal[l]y divided be betwixt them

Item It is my will that the rest of my negores[sic] that have

[Will Book Volume G, page 77]
not been named shall be equally divided betwixt my
children to wit John Reeves my Daughters Marah
Andrews Priscilla Reeves Martha Reeves Delila Reeves
and Sinah Moore

Item It is my will that the plantation that I purchased
from my brother James Reeves with all the balance
of my property to be sold after my death and the
monies arrising therefrom to be equally divided betwixt
my after named children John Reeves my daughter
Priscilla Reeves Martha Reeves Delila Reeves Marah
Andrews, Sinah Moore each to share and share alike

Item the Negroes that I gave to my son John shall return
to my after named children in case he or his lawful
heirs shall never come after them to wit my daughter
Polly Andrews Priscilla Reeves Martha Reeves Delila
Reeves Sina Moore each to share and share alike alike

I also constitute and appoint my trusty friend and
son John Reeves and my son in law Chesley Moore
Executors to this my last will and testament in witness
whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal
this the 9 December 1846
Test                         John Reeves (Seal)
Thos. D. Oldham
John Moore
Geo. W. Purify

Whereas I John Reeves have made my last will
& testament in writing as above expressed on the
9th day of December 1846 But as circumstances
have now materially changed I do by this writing
which I hereby declare to be a codicil to my said
will to be construed as a part thereof

I will & direct that in addition to what I have
devised to my son John Reeves that he also have
in place of Mary (now dead) a negro girl by the
name of June[Jane] together with her increase

I further will & direct that the increase of the
negro girls given to my daughters Mary Andrews

[Will Book Volume G, page 78]
Sina Moore, & Martha and Delilah go to those of my
said daughters to whom the mother of such increase has
already been devised. should any of the negroes that I
have divised or given to any of my children by will die
in my lifetime I hereby direct that the value of said negro
or negroes be made up to them out of the negroes that
have been left to be divided. I further direct that my
daughters Priscilla Martha & Delilah have out of my
estate one years allowance of provisions for themselves
& for Tabitha Kirk if living

In testimony whereof I hereunto set my hand
& seal this the 22nd of September AD. 1853
Signed sealed & declared by the
said John Reeves to be a codicil or
part of his last will & testament in
presence of us who at his request &
in his presence do subscribe our names
as witnesses
Geo. W. Purify                 John Reeves (Seal)
Thos. D. Oldham

Orange County Court November Term 1854
The Execution of the foregoing last will and Testament
of John Reeves Decd was Proved in open Court
by the oath of Thomas D. Oldham and John
Moore two to the subscribing witnesses thereto
and at the same time the codicil to said will
was duly proved by the oath of Thomas D Oldham
one of the subscribing witnesses thereto and the
said will together with the codicil was ordered
to be recorded and filed as such

and thereupon the said Chesley Moore one
of the executors therein named appeared in open
Court and qualified by taking the oath
prescribed by Law
                    Test Geo Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 75-78
Recorded Nov 1854

Estate Papers comprise 39 pages and are found in the folder labeled "Reeves, John (1854)".  Testator died in 1854.  Tabitha Kirk died in Feb 1883.  In 1857 or 1859 Chesley Moore took negro slave Jerry to Richmond, Virginia and sold him for One Thousand and Five dollars.

[Estate Papers - Division of Negroes 5 Dec 1854]

State of North Carolina }
    Orange County       }

To the worshipful the Justice of the Court
of Pleas and Quarter Session February
Term 1855

        We the undersigned freeholders
appoint by the Court of Pleas and quarter
Session of Said Court having been duly sworn
proceeded on the fifth day of December 1854
to divide and make partition between and
among Chesley Moore and wife Archibel
Andrews and wife Martha Reeves Delila
Reeves Priscilla Reeves and John Reeves tenants
in common of certain slave property
belonging to the estate of John Reeves deceas't (Viz.)

lot no. 1 Girl Lucey  valued at         $700..00
 "  no. 2 boy  Willis valued at          700..00
 "  no. 3 Harriet and Dilcey valued at   558..00
 "  no. 4 Judy and Charity   valued at   550. 00
 "  no. 5 Alexander   valued at          450..00
 "  no. 6 Joseph      valued at          450. 00
                                    ________________
              Whole about          6)   3408. 00
          Which amount being divided in 6 parts
                          Makes each share 568.00

Whereupon we have made and do hereby
make the following appropriations among
the respective claimants that is to say the lot
lot is assigned and appropriated to ["Priscilla Reeves" x-out]
                                    Martha Reeves
lot no 2  "     "       "        to Priscilla Reeves
 "  no 3  "     "       "        to Chesley Moore
 "  no 4  "     "       "        to Arichbel Andrews
 "  no 5  "     "       "        to John Reeves
 "  no 6  "     "       "        to Delila Reeves

We further charge the more valuable dividends

[page 2]
With such sum of money respectively to be
paid to these of inferior value respectively as will
make an equitable division  That is to say
The lot no 1 appropriated to Martha Reeves
is to pay to the lot no 6 appropriated ["Archibel" x-out]
["Andrews" x-out] to Delila Reeves $118.00
And to lot no 4 appropriated to Archibel Andrews
$14.10   Lot no 2  appropriated to Priscilla
Reeves is ot pay to the lot 5  appropriated
to John Reeves the sum of $118:00 and also
pay to lot no 3  appropriated Chesley Moore
the sum of $10:00 and also pay to lot no 4
$4.00

We further proceded to value three small
children now in the perssession of Chesley
Moore and Wife Martha Preeves and Delila
Reeves who owned the mothers of the same
and also kept the same by paying over
to valueation which were as followers[sic]

    Algynon   valued at        $141.00
    Warner    valued at         125.00
    Cornelia  valued at         100.00
                             ________________
         Whole about        6)  366. 00
  divided into six shared makes  $61.00
to a share which was agreed to by the
legatees

All of which is resp[e]ctfully submitted under
our hands and seal this 5th day of December 1854
                              B. Stroud    (seal)
                             Thomas Brewer (seal)
                             S. B. Durham  (seal)
 

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

