Will of William H Robison - 12 Aug 1867

I William H Robison[sic] do Make and Ordain this
paper writing As my last will And testament I
direct all My Just debts to be paid out of My personal
Estate I give and devise to my ["Sister Sarah" x-out]
Brother David M Robinson[sic] my part of the wheat fan
["Robison" x-out]
My part of the wheat Fan also my Sister Sarah Robison provisions for
one year's Support the remainder of My property lands
excepted I wish Sold and after paying all my Just debts
the remainder to be equally divided Share and Share alike
between my brother David M Robinson and my three Sisters
(viz) Jane Guess wife of John R. Guess Rebecca Tilly wife
of Henry Tilly and Sarah Robison I Give and devise
all of My lands to My four above named legatees that is
David M. Robinson Jane Guess Rebecca Tilly & Sarah Robison
to be equally Divided between the four Shear & Shear alike
to have and to hold the Same whearesoever[sic] Situate to
them And their heirs forever to be divided when this will
goes into effect and further I Appoint William J. Gray
the Executor of this my last will with a particular request that he
will prove and act under it In testimony whearof
I have hearunto Set My hand this 12th day of August 1867

Signed and published by the      }        Wm. H. Robinson
testator as his will in the      }
presence of us who Subscribed    }
the Same as witnesses in the     }
presence of him and each other   }

H. Rountree
James R. Miller

[Will Book Volume G, page 527]
I William H Robinson do make and ordain
this paper writing as my last will and testament

I direct all my Just debts to be paid out of my personal
estate I give and devise to my Brother David M Robinson
my part of the wheat fan My part of the wheat fan
als[o] my Sister Sarah Robinson provisions for one years
Support the remainder of my property lands excepted
I wish Sold and after paying all my Just debts, the
remainder to be equally divided Share and Share
alike between my brother David M Robinson and
my three Sisters viz: Jane Guess wife of John R Guess
Rebeca Tilly wife of Henry Tilly and Sarah Robinson
I give and devise all of my lands to my four above
named legatees that is David M Robinson Jane Guess
Rebecca Tilly & Sarah Robinson to be eaqually[sic] divided
between the four Share & Share alike to have and to
hold the Same whearsoever[sic] Situate to them
and their heirs forever to be divided when this
will goes into effect and further I appoint William
J Gray the executor of this my last will with a
particular request that he will prove and act under
it In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand
this 12th day of August 1867.

Signed and published             Wm H Robinson
by the testator as his will
in the presence of us who Sub-
scribed the Same as witnesses
in the presence of him and
each other.

H. Rountree
James R Miller

Orange County Court August Term 1867
The execution of the foregoing last will and
testament of William H Robinson deceased
was duely[sic] proved in Open Court.
    See Minutes Test Geo Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, page 527
Recorded Aug 1867

In the loose will, surname of testator and family written as "Robison" and "Robinson", however testator's signature (not mark) is written "Robinson"

Estate Papers comprise 74 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Robinson, William H (1867)"  David M. Robinson was appointed administrator with a bond of $4,000.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

