Will of James W Clark - 7 May 1860

        I James W. Clark of the state of North
Carolina and County of Orange being of
Sound mind and memory, do make and de-
clare This my last will and testament, in
manner and form, as follows, that is to say -
first that my executor (herein after named)
shall provide for my body a decent burial,
and pay all funeral expenses, together with
my just debts, out of the monies that may
first come into [his] hands as part or parcel
of my estate.  First I give and bequeath
to my beloved wife, Sarah Clark, three beds
and beadsteads with the clothing belonging
to them, one walnut table, bureau, one half
dozen chairs, candlestand, two work horses,
waggon and gear belonging to it, all my farm-
ing tools, two milch cows, crop of grain
and provender on hands at my decease,
contents of the smoke-house stock of out
hogs - half of my flock of sheep - also the growing
crop and use of all land intended for the pres-
sant crop, all the kitchen furniture, also
I allow my wife the full and free use of
The tract of Land on which I now live
for a house during her widowhood, in
lieu of her dower and Thirds,

2nd I give and bequeath to my daughter,
Eliza Ann The best bed, bedstead and
furniture belonging to bed, big chest, wal-
nut table, first choice, one half dozen
chairs - Milch cow, first choice, I also
give and bequeath The tract of Land on
which I now live to my daughter Eliza
Ann and my son Stephen to be divided
equally between them at the death of

[page 2]
my wife 3rd I give and bequeath The Tract
of Land Known as the "Kelly Tract" - (with the
exception of the "Patterson Purchase", commencing
at the Black-Jack corner - known as Allison[s]
and Clarks corner, running west with
The old line to the fence - thence north
with The fence to the publick road,
containing about twenty seven a-
cres) - to my sons John and William to be e-
qually divided between Them, when the youn-
ger of the two becomes of age - in The
mean time The land is to be worked
for the benefit of the family - The two above
named (To Wit John and William) paying
over to Eliza Ann and Stephen,
One hundred dollars each, and further
that John account to my executor for
The value of a horse - lately sold by him,
(To Wit seventy five dollars). My intention
in The above regulations is That my chil-
dren may inherit equally

4th My will is that the reserved property on
hand at My death shall be sold to
meet my debts - and my will farther is
That my servant Nelson shall be
sold privately, my executor selecting
him a suitable master - provided
a reasonable price can Thus be
obtained.

Fifth. I do hereby appoint my friend
S. W. Hughes, my lawful executor to this
my last Will and Testament.  In witness
whereof, I, The said James W. Clark
do hereunto set my hand and

[page 3]
seal.  This 7th day of May AD-
1860.
                  James W. Clark (seal)

W. R. Hughes } Witnesses
T. J. Wilson }

[Will Book Volume G, page 245]
I James W. Clark of the State of North Carolina
and County of Orange being of Sound mind and
memory do make and declare this my last
will and testament in manner and form as
follows that is to Say, first that my executor
hereinafter named shall provide for my body
a decent burial and pay all funeral expenses
together with my just debts out of the monies
that may first come into his hands as part or
parcel of my estate

First I give and bequeath to my beloved wife
Sarah Clark three beds and bedsteads with the
clothing belonging to them one Walnut Table
bureau, one half dozen chairs, candlestand, two
work horses Waggon and gear belonging to it
all my farming tools two Milch cows, Crop of
grain and provender on hand at my decease
contents of [the] Smoke house Stock of out hogs - half
of my flock of Sheep  also the growing Crop and use of
all land intended for the present Crop all the
Kitchen furniture also I allow my wife the full and
free use of the tract of Land on which I now live
for a house dureing her widowhood in lieu of
her dower and thirds

2nd I give and bequeath to my daughter Eliza Ann
the best bed, bedstead and furniture belonging to bed
big chest Walnut table first choice. one half
dozen chairs - Milch cow. first choice. I also
give and bequeath the tract of land on which I now
live to my daughter Eliza Ann and my son Stephen to be
divided equally between them at the death of my wife

3rd I give and bequeath the tract of land Known as the
Kelly tract (with the exception of the Patterson
Purchase Commencing at the black Jack Corner
known as Allisons and Clarks corner running west
with the old line to the fence - thence north with
the fence to the publick road Containing about
twenty Seven Acres ~~ to my Sons John and

[Will Book Volume G, page 246]
William to be equally divided between them. when the
Younger of the two becomes of age - in the mean time
the land is to be worked for the benefit of the
family - the two above named (to wit John and William)
paying over to Eliza Ann and Stephen One hundred
dollars each and further that John account to my
executor for The value of a horse lately sold by him
(to wit Seventy five Dollars) My intention in the
above regulations is that my children may inherit
equally

4th My will is that the reserved property on hand at
my death shall be sold to meet my debts. and my
will farther is that my Servant Nelson shall be sold
privately my executor selecting him a Suitable
master. provided a reasonable price can thus be obtained.

Fifth I do hereby appoint my friend S. W. Hughes, my
lawful executor to this my last will and testament

In witness whereof I the said James W Clark do
hereunto set my hand and seal this 7th day of
May AD 1860.
                James W. Clark (seal)
W. R. Hughes } Witnesses
T. J. Wilson }

              Orange County Court Augt Term 1860
The execution of the foregoing last will and
Testament of James W Clark decd was duly proved
in open Court according to law See Minutes

[Estate Papers - Estate Sale]
        A list of Articles sold by Saml. W. Hughes.
ex. of J. W. Clark dec. Oct 27 A.D. 1860
...
J. Wilson purchased "one negro Man  $600.00"

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 245-246
Recorded Aug 1860

Estate Papers comprise three pages and are found in a folder labeled "Clark, J W (1860)". The "one negro Man" listed in the estate sale may be Nelson, named in the will.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

