Will of Thomas P Paul - 26 Jul 1854

    I Thomas P. Paul of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina being of sound mind and
memory but considering the uncertainty of my
earthly existence, do make and declare this my
last Will and testament, in manner and form
following, that is to say --:

First That my Executors, hereinafter named, shall
provide for my body a decent burial suitable to
the wishes of my relations and pay all funeral
expenses together with my just debts, out of the
monies that may first come into their hands, as
a part or parcel of my estate ---

Item I give bequeath and devise all the residue of my
estate both real and personal, together with all
my money Bonds, and effects of every description to
my Executors, to be kept together by them and used
for the benefit of all my children until my youngest
son James K. Paul arrives at the full age of twenty
one years, and then it is my will that all of my
said estate of every description, both real and
personal with all the increase of the same be equally
divided among my children John B. Paul, Margaret
Jane Paul, Cornelia Elizabeth Paul, Susan Frances Paul,
Sarah Ann Paul, William Cornelius Paul and James
Kinchelow Paul share and share alike ~~

If any of my said children should die before the
time mentioned for the division of my estate,
leaving a child or children surviving such
child or children to represent the parent in
said division, and take the share such parent
would have been entitled to; but if any of my
said children should die before the time of said
division without leaving any child or children
surviving , then the share of said deceased child

[page 2]
To be divided among my other children, as
the rest of my estate ~

It is my wish that my children continue to live
together, if they choose to do so, until said division,
it is also my desire that my Executors should
take the charge of my minor children until they
arrive at full age, and give them such an
education, as in their opinion, the condition of
my estate will admit of~~~

If my youngest son James should die before
arriving at full age, then and in that case the
division of my estate shall take place upon the
arrival at full age of my next youngest child
William C. Paul ~~ If at any time my Executors
should fail to make enough for the comfortable
subsistence of the family, then it is my desire
that they use so much of the interest upon the
bonds in their hands, as will be sufficient for the
purpose of supplying the deficiency; otherwise
they are to keep it like the principal for the benefit
of my estate until the division above mentioned ~~

And lastly - I do hereby constitute and appoint
my children John B. Paul and Margaret Jane Paul
my lawful Executors to all intents and
purposes, to execute this my last will and
testament, according to the true intent
and meaning of the same, and every
part and clause thereof - hereby revoking
and declaring utterly void all other
wills and testaments by me heretofore
made -

        In witness whereof I the said
Thomas P. Paul do hereunto set my
hand and affix my seal, this

[page 3]
The 26th day of July A.D. 1854

                           Thos. P. Paul (seal)

Signed, sealed, published        }
and declared by the said         }
Thomas P. Paul, to be his last   }
Will and Testament, in presence  }
of us, who at his request and in }
his presence, do subscribe our   }
names as witnesses thereto ~~    }

Benj. F. Mebane    Jurat
Ruffin R. Tapp

[Will Book Volume G, page 64]
I Thomas P. Paul of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina being of Sound
mind and memory but considering the
uncertainty of my earthly existence do make
and declare this my last Will and testament
in manner and form following, that is to say

1st First that my Executors hereinafter named shall
provide for my body a decent burial suitable
to the wishes of my relations and pay all funeral
expenses together with my just debts, out of
the monies that may first come into their hands as
a part or parcel of my Estate

Item I give bequeath and devise all the residue of my
estate both real and personal together with all my
money bonds and effects of every description to
my executors to be kept together by them and
used for the benefit of all my children until
my youngest son James K Paul arrives at the
full age of Twenty one years and then it is my
Will that all of my said estate of every description
both real and personal with all the increase of the
same be equally divided among my children
John B. Paul Margaret Jane Paul Cornelia Elizabeth
Paul Susan Frances Paul Sarah Ann Paul
William Cornelius Paul and James Kinchelow
Paul Share and Share alike

[Will Book Volume G, page 65]
if any of my said Children should die before
the time mentioned for the division of my estate
leaving a child or children surviving such
Child or Children to represent the parent in
Said division, and take the share such
parent would have been entitled to but
if any of my said children should die before
the time of said division without leaving
any child or children surviving them [then] the
share of said deceased child to be divided
among my other children as the rest of my estate
It is my wish that my children continue to live
together if they choose to do so until said division
it is also my desire that my Executors should
take the Charge of my Minor Children until
they arrive at full age and give them such
an education, as in their opinion the condition
of my estate will admit of

If my youngest son James should die before
arriving at full age then and in that case the
division of my estate Shall take place upon
the arrival at full age of my next youngest child
William C. Paul If at any time my Executors
Should fail to make enough for the comfortable
Subsistence of the family then it is my desire
that they use so much of the interest upon the
bonds in their hands as will be Sufficient for
the purpose of supplying the deficiency ["for" x-out]
["the benefit" x-out] Otherwise they are to keep it like
the principal for the benefit of my estate until
the division above mentioned and lastly
I do hereby constitute and appoint my
Children John B. Paul and Margaret Jane Paul
my lawful executors to all intents and purpo
=ses to execute this my last will and
Testament according to the true intent and
meaning of the same and every part and
Clause thereof hereby revoking and declaring

[Will Book Volume G, page 66]
utterly void all other wills and testaments
by me heretofore made

        In witness whereof I the said Thomas
P. Paul do hereunto set my hand and
affix my seal, this the 26th day of July AD 1854

Signed sealed published           }
and declared [by] the said Thomas }  Thos. P. Paul (seal)
P Paul, to be his last Will and   }
Testament in presence of us       }
who at his request and in his     }
presence do subscribe our         }
names as witnesses thereto        }
Benjamin F. Mebane                }
Ruffin R. Tapp                    }

Orange County Court August Term 1854 -
The Execution of the foregoing last Will and
Testament of Thomas P Paul decd. was duly proved
in open Court by the oath of Benjamin F
Mebane one of the subscribing witnesses thereto and
ordered to [be] recorded and filed and thereupon
the said John B Paul one of the executors as aforesaid
qualifies as such by taking the oath required by law
                        Test Geo Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 64-66
Recorded Aug 1854

Estate Papers comprise 110 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Paul, Thomas P (1854)".  Despite the number of pages, there is very little history.  Most of these pages are

[Estate Papers - Bond 16 Feb 1858]

Know all men that we Wm. D. Faucette, Margaret Jane
Faucette, Albert Roberts, & Cornelia E. Roberts, are
held and firmly found unto John B. Paul in the
sum of Twelve hundred dollars for which pay=
=ment well and truly to be made we bind ourselves
our heirs, executors & administrators firmly by
these present sealed with our seal and dated
this 16th of February 1858~~

    The condition of the above obligation is such
that whereas the above named John B. Paul has
been compelled by the insolence and misbehavior
of a certain negro slave woman named Eliza
belonging to the estate of Thomas P. Paul To sell
said slave and her child Esau, and has paid
to us our share of the proceeds of said sale and
whereas some of the children of the said Thomas P.
Paul are minors and incapable of ratifying
said sale, now therefore if the above bounden Wm. D.
Faucette & his wife Margaret, Albert Roberts & his wife
Cornelia shall save harmless the said John B.
Paul from all claims of the minor children of the
said J. P. Paul by reason of his said sale of the
above named negroes, then this obligation to be
void, otherwise remain in full force and effect-

Witness                W. D. Faucett (seal)
T. C. Hayes            Margaret J Faucett (seal)
                       Al Roberts (seal)
                       Cornelia E Roberts (seal)
                       Susan F Paul (seal)


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

