Will of Ezekiel Hailey - 27 Nov 1847

Be it remembered that on Novr 27th 1847 ----
I, Ezekiel Hailey of the County of Orange & State of
No.Carolina, calling to mind the mortality of the flesh,
and being of perfect mind and disposing memory,
do make this my last will and testament-------
in manner and form following ----(Viz)----
1st my will and desire is, that all my lawful & Just
debts be paid by my Executor, out of my personable[sic]
property -- 2nd I give and bequeath to my wife Mary Hailey
all my Land on which I now live & own during her single
life, and after her single life, I give the said Land to
to[sic] my daughters that is now single M. M. Hailey and S. L. Hailey
["Ezekial C. Hailey" x-out] which they are to live on and take care of
their mother ["and sisters" x-out] [much x-out, hence the controversy].
I give to Simon R. Hailey ["ninety dollars" x-out]sixty five Dollars
worth of that land where on he now lives at three Dollars
and 25 cents per acre which sum I gave for said land,

[page 2]
P.S.

I have given to my Daughters that are married one
Bed and furniture and one cow a peace and
many other small articles that I shall not
mention, I want all my stock sold after the
death of my wife Mary Hailey or her single life & equally
Divided so as E. C. Hailey to get an equal part, and my
Daughters to get an equal part with each other ---
of my Daughters

    Minerva M Hailey   }  These three daughters and
    Mary Jane Hailey   }  E. C. Hailey have recd.
    Lathetnay S Hailey }  nothing as yet

Witness my hand and seal this 27th Novr. 1847.
 Test                        Ezekiel Hailey (seal)

I have given to S. R. Hailey 1 Horse worth sixty Dollars he is to pay
all Interest on sd $60 I have given to S. R. Hailey all I allotted
for him, I have given to Alvan E. Hailey ninety Dollars
worth of Land, one mare worth $60, and all I allotted
for him, I have given to Thos. L. Hailey ninety Dollars worth
of Land where he now lives and one horse worth $60, and all
I allotted for him except two head of sheep. ------
I have given to Sally M. Shepherd all I allotted for her,
I have given to Rachel P. Garrett all I allotted for her,
except["2 head of sheep" x-out] recd by her, all The rest of my Personal
property I give to my Other Children that is yet a single
equally: Ezekiel C. Hailey is to have one horse worth $60 or made
up to him in value - all my stock of Cows hogs & sheep
is to be sold after my death for the Benefit of my wife
and other surviving family. -- I further appoint my son Thos. L.
Hailey my executor to this my last will & testiment, revoking all
other will[s] by me heretofore made.    Ezekiel Hailey (seal)
Witness my hand and seal this day & year above written

["Codicil"]
North Carolina Orange County
October 23rd 1852 ---------
This Indenture made this day and date above
written witnesseth--- that for the love
and affection I have to my daughter ---
Minervey M. Hailey, and for the long servitude
she has rendered to me and my wife ---
Mary Hailey I give grant and aliean to her
The said Minervey M. Hailey one cow and
calf, or yearling one feather bed and all its
nesery[necessary] furniture and one half of my land
containing 124 Acres to have and to hold free
from all lawful claims or demands of all
person or persons which she the said
Minervey M. Hailey has merited by her faithful
performance and and[an] equel proportion of all
and every Thing pertaining to my perishable
estate --- [erasure] after my death and
the death of her mother. Also if the sd.
Minervey M. Hailey should die before
she ever marries or have any lawful
hairs[sic] the [second "the" x-out]above is to be void and
null otherwise to remain in full force
and effect

PS the land is to be measured on the north
east of my land not include my dwell
=ing-house; for that is for Ezekiel C.
Hailey after my and his mother life time spent
Witness my hand and seal this; 23rd
day of October 1852
                  Ezekiel Hailey

[Court Proceedings]

                                Sept 1854
    A paper writing purporting to be the last will and
testament of Ezekiel Hailey deceased and which is in words and
figures following towit " Be it remembered that on Novr 27th
1847 I Ezekiel Hailey of the County of Orange and State of
North Carolina calling to mind the mortality of the flesh
and being of perfect mind and disposing memory do make
this my last will and testament in manner and form
following (Viz) 1st my will and desire is that all my lawful
and just debts be paid by my executor out of my personable[sic]
property. 2nd I give and bequeath to my wife Mary
Hailey all my land on which I now live and own during
her single life, and after her single life I give the said land to my daughters
that is now single M. M. Hailey and S. S. Hailey which
they are to live on and take care of their mother. I give
to Simon R. Hailey sixty five dollars worth of that land
whereon he now lives at three dollars and 25 cents
per acre which sum I gave for said land. I have given
to S. R. Hailey 1 Horse worth sixty dollars he is to pay all
interest on sd $60 I have given to S. R. Hailey all I allotted
for him, I have given to Alvin E Hailey ninety dollars
worth of land one mare worth $60 and all I allotted for him
I have given to Thomas S. Hailey ninety dollars worth of
land where he now lives and one horse worth $60 and all
I allotted for him except two head of sheep. I have given
to Sally M. Shepherd all I allotted for her. I have given
to Rachel P. Garrett all I allotted for her except recd by
her, all the rest of my personal property I give to my other
children that is yet a single equally: Ezekiel C. Hailey is
to have one horse worth $60 or make up to him in value ---
all my stock of Cows Hogs and Sheep is to be sold after my
death for the benefit of my wife and other surviving
family. I further appoint my son Thos. S. Hailey
my executor to this my last will and testiment revoking
all other Will[s] by me heretofore made.
                                Ezekiel Hailey (seal)
Witness my hand & seal this day and year above written

[page 2]
P.S. I have given to my daughters that are married one bed
and furniture & one cow a piece & many other small articles
that I shall not mention I want all my stock sold after the
death of my wife Mary Hailey or her single life & equally divided
so as E C Hailey to get an equal part & my daughters to get an
equal part with each other of my daughters Minerva M Hailey
Mary Jane Hailey and Salthetney[?] S Hailey these three daughters
& E. C. Hailey have recd. nothing as yet witness my hand & seal this
27th Novr. 1847.                Ezekiel Hailey (seal)
Notice Ezekiel C Hailey left my house & board at seventeen
years of age and I will not give to him the land I intended
to have given him in the foregoing part of this my will this
3rd of Decr 1850              "Ezekiel Hailey"
is propounded for probate in open Court by Thomas L.
Hailey the executor therein named. - Whereupon Ezekiel
C. Hailey one of the heirs and next of kin of the said Ezekiel
Hailey comes into court and enters a Caveat to the probate
thereof and says that the same does not contain the whole
of the last Will and testament of the said Ezekiel Hailey
deceased but that it contains only a part thereof, and that
another paper writing which is in words and figures
following (to wit) "North Carolina" Orange County"
October 23rd 1852 This indenture made this day and
date above written - Witnesseth - that for the love and
affection I have to my daughter Minerva M Hailey and
for the long servitude she has rendered me and my wife
Mary Hailey I give and grant and alien to her the said
Minerva M. Hailey one cow & calf or yearling one feather
bed and all the necessary furniture and on half of my
land containing 124 acres to have and to hold free
from all lawful claims or demands of all person or
persons which she the said Minerva M Hailey has
merited by her faithful performance and equal
proportion of all and everything pertaining to my perishable
estate after my death & the death of her mother, also if
the said Minerva M Hailey should die before she ever

[page 3]
marries or have any lawful heirs the above is to be void
and null otherwise to remain in full effect force & effect
PS. The land to be measured on the north east of my land
not include my dwelling house for that is for Ezekiel C
Hailey after my & his mother lifetime spent. Witness my
hand & seal this 23rd day of October 1852
                                  Ezekiel Hailey
is a part of "Viz" or a Codicil to the former paper writing and
together with it forms the last will and testament of the
said Ezekiel Hailey. And thereupon the Court directs
the following issue to be made up and submitted to a Jury
"towit"- Is the said paper writing propounded by the executor
Thomas L. Hailey the whole of the last Will and testament
of the said Ezekiel Hailey or do the two papers together
constitute said will and testament." Thereupon it is
ordered that Thomas L Hailey, Mary Hailey
Lumlly[?] by his Guardian BS. Durham Alvom E. Hailey

[Will Book Volume G, page 91]
Be it remembered that on Novr. 27th 1847

I Ezekiel Hailey of the County of Orange and
State of North Carolina calling to mind the mortality of the
flesh and being of perfect mind and disposing memory do
make this my last will and testament in manner and
form following (Viz) 1st my will and desire is that all my
lawfull and Just debts be paid by my executor out of
my personal property 2nd I give and bequeath to my wife
Mary Hailey all my land on which I now live and own
during her single life and after her Single life I give
the said land to to my daughters that is now single
M M Hailey and S L Hailey which they are to live on and
take care of their Mother

I give to Simon R. Hailey Sixty

five dollars worth of that land whereon he now lives at
three Dollars and 25 cents per acre which sum I gave
for said land I have given to S R Hailey 1 Horse worth
Sixty dollars he is to pay all interest on sd $60 I have given
to S R Hailey all I allotted for him I have given to Alvan
E Hailey ninety Dollars worth of land, one mare worth
$60 and all I allotted for him I have given to Thomas
L Hailey ninety dollars worth of land where he now
lives and one horse worth $60 and all I allotted for
him except two head of Sheep I have given to Sally
M Shepherd all I allotted for her I have given to
Rachel P. Garrett all I allotted for her except recd by
her all The rest of my personal property I give to my other
children that is yet a Single equally Ezekiel C Hailey
is to have one horse worth $60 or made up to him in value
all my stock of cows hogs and Sheep is to be sold after my
death for the benefit of my wife and other surviving family
I further appoint my Son Thos. L. Hailey my Executor to
this my last will and testament revoking all other Will[s]
by me heretofore made
                           Ezekiel Hailey (seal)
Witness my hand & Seal this day and year above written

PS I have given to my daughters that are married one
bed and furniture & one cow a piece & many other [x-out]

[Will Book Volume G, page 92]
small articles that I shall not mention I want all my
stock sold after the death of my wife Mary Hailey or
her Single life & equally divided so as E C Hailey to get
an equal part & my daughters to get an equal part with
each other of my daughters Minerva M Hailey Mary Jane
Hailey and Lathetnay S Hailey these three daughters &
E. C. Hailey have recd. nothing as yet Witness my hand
& Seal this 27th Novr. 1847.     Ezekiel Hailey (seal)

Notice Ezekiel C Hailey left my house & board at
Seventeen years of age and I will not give to him the
land I intended to have given him in the foregoing
part of this my will this 3rd of Decr 1850
                               Ezekiel Hailey

North Carolina "Orange County" October 23rd 1852
This Indenture made this day and date above written
Witnesseth that for the love and affection I have to my
daughter Minerva M Hailey and for the long servitude she
has rendered to me and my wife Mary Hailey I give grant
and alien to her the said Minerva M. Hailey one cow & Calf
or yearling one feather bed and all its necessary furniture
and one half of my land Containing 124 acres to have
and to hold free from all lawfull claims or demands
of all person or persons which she the said Minerva M Hailey
has merited by her faithfull performance and equal proportion
of all and every thing pertaining to my perishable estate after
my death & the death of her mother also if the said Minerva
M Hailey should die before she ever marries or have any Lawfull
heirs the above is to be void and will{orig: null] otherwise to remain in
full force & effect

PS the land is to be measured on the north east of my land
not include my dwelling home for that is for Ezekiel C. Hailey
after my & his mother life time spent Witness my hand & Seal
this 23rd day of October 1852
                                       Ezekiel Hailey

[Will Book Volume G, page 93]
        Orange County Court February Term 1855
In obediance[sic] to a precendo issued from Orange Saperior
Court the Execution of the foregoing paper writing
and Codicil thereto annexed admitted to probate as
the last last will and testament of EzeKiel Hailey deceased
And ordered to be Recorded and filed as such

Whereupon Thomas L Hailey the Executor therein named
appeared in open Court and qualified by taKing
the oath prescribed by Law
                          Test Geo Laws CCC

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 91-93
Recorded Feb 1855

The folder holding this loose will also includes an unusual number of additional documents due 1) the testator writing a number of will-related documents 2) the testator changing his mind, and 3) disputes among the heirs as to the meaning of the collection of documents.  There are a number of copies - not photocopies, rather handwritten copies - of the will and related court papers in the file folder in the NC State Archives.

Estate Papers comprise 21 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Hailey, Ezekiel (1854)".  No family history found.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

