Will of Joseph Proctor - 22 Jun 1860

[Please note.  There are two wills for Joseph Proctor in 1860 in Orange County.  They are uncle and nephew and represent two unique estates.  See notes below]

[First Loose will in folder - "Uncle", dated 22 Jun 1860]
I Joseph Proctor of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina being of sound
mind and memory, but considering the
uncertainty of my earthly existence do make and
declare this my Last Will and testament in
manner and form following that is to say

First That my Executor hereinafter named
shall provide for my body a decent bur-
ial suitable to the wishes of my friends
and Relations and pay all funeral expenses
together with my just debts howsoever and
to whomsoever owing out of the first
monies that may come into their hands as a
part or parsel of my Estate.

Item I give and devise to my youngest son
Joseph Proctor a certain Lot or parsell of Land
Lying in the South west corner of my tract of
Land to be set out by metes and bounds in cluding
my mansion House and all other out Houses
and other improvements the Line to commence
on the Line between me & Thomas Christians
Heirs where the path turns at the corner of the
fence said path Leading to Marcoms saw mill
Running thence North with the fence untill it
comes East of the Spring thence west to the
spring thence across the middle of the spring
thence down the spring branch to Elebees
Creek thence across said Creek to Allen
Roberts Line thence west with Roberts Line
to a Hickary corner thence to the creek

[page 2]
W. N. Pratt Line thence East to a Stick
on W. N. Pratts Lie thence East to a pine
Pratts & Christians Heirs corner thence the Line
between my Land & Christians Heirs to the first
station.  To have and to hold to him and
his Heirs in fee simple forever

Item give and devise to my daughter Sally
a Lot of Land begin[n]ing at a pine John
Pool's corner thence North to a mulberry
tree thence East to J. P. Marcom's Line
thence south with Marcoms Line to Pools
Line thence west to the begin[n]ing to have
and to hold to her Sally during her Life time
at her death said Lot of Land to be sold
and divided Equally between my heirs Sally is to have
the priviledge of gitting fier wood off my other
Land as Long as she Lives

My will is that after my death that the Remain-
der of my tract of Land be sold and Equally
divided betwe[e]n Nancy Whitaker William
Proctor Patsey Brownings Heirs Anderson Proctor
Heirs, Sally Cole & Joseph Proctor

I also want all Stock of Hogs Cows & Sheepe
House & Kitchen furniture to be sold & divid
ed Equally between (my) sons and daughters above
named.

And Lastly - I do hereby constitute and appoint
my trusty friend M. A. Angier My Lawful
Executor to all intents and purposes to Execute
this my Last Will & Testament according to

[page 3]
the true intent and meening of the same
and every part & clause there of

Hereby Revoking & declaring ut[t]erly void
all other wills & testaments by me heretofore
made.

In witness whereof I the said Joseph Proctor
do hereunto set my [hand] and seal this 22nd
day of June 1860

Signed sealed published          his
and Declared by the said      J. (X) P.oroctor (seal)
Joseph Proctor to be his Last    mark
will & testament in the
presence of us who at his
request and in his presence
do subscribe our names
as witnesses thereto

   Hampton W Dollar   Jurat
   J. W. Markham    Jurat

[Will Book Volume G, page 243]
I Joseph Proctor of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina being of sound
mind and memory, but considering the uncertain=
ty of my earthly existence do make and
declare this my last Will and testament
in manner and form following that is to Say

First That my Executor hereinafter named shall provide
for my body a decent burial suitable to the
wishes of my friends and relations and pay all
funeral expenses together with my just debts howsoever
and to whomsoever owing out of the first monies
that may come into their hands as a part or
parsel of my Estate.

Item I give and devise to my Youngest son Joseph
Proctor a certain lot or parsell of Land lying
in the South West corner of my tract of Land
to be set out by metes and bounds including my
Mansion Home[house] and all other out Homes[houses] and other
improvements the line to commence on the line
between me & Thomas Christmans heirs where the
path turns at the corner of the fence said path
leading to Marcoms saw mill Running thence
North with the fence untill it comes East of the
Spring thence West to the Spring thence across
the middle of the Spring thence down the
Spring branch to Ellerbees Creek thence across
said Creek to Allen Roberts Line thence West
with Roberts line to a hickory corner thence to
the creek W N Pratts line thence south to a
stick on W N Pratts line thence East to a
pine Pratts & Christians Heirs corner thence the line

[Will Book Volume G, page 244]
between my land & Christmans heirs to the first Station.
to have and to hold to him and his Heirs in fee simple forever

Item give and devise to my daughter Sally a Lot of Land
beginning at a pine John Pool's corner thence North to a
Mulberry tree thence East to J P Marcoms line thence
south with Marcoms line to Pools Line thence West to the
beginning to have and to hold to her Sally dureing her
life time at her death said Lot of Land to be sold
and divided Equally between my heirs Sally is to have
the privaledge of Getting fire Wood off my other Land
as Long as she lives

My will is that after my death that the remainder
of my tract of Land be sold and Equally divided
between Nancy Whitaker William Proctor Patsy
Brownings heirs Anderson Proctor heirs, Sally Cole
& Joseph Proctor

I also want all Stock of Hogs Cows & Sheep home[house]
& Kitchen furniture to be sold & divided equally
between my sons and daughters above named.

And Lastly I do hereby constitute and appoint - my
trusty friend M A Angier my lawful executor to all
intents and purposes to execute this my last will
& testament according to the true intent and meaning
of the Same and every part & clause thereof Hereby
revokeing & declareing utterly void all other wills &
testaments by me heretofore made.

In witness whereof I the said Joseph Proctor do
hereunto set my [hand] and seal this 22nd day of June 1860

Signed sealed published and              }    his
declared by the said Joseph Proctor      } J. (X) Proctor (seal)
to be his Last will & testament in the   }    mark
presence of us who at his request and in }
his presence do subscribe our names      }
as witnesses thereto                     }
Hampton W Dollar                         }
J. W. Markham                            }

                                       Orange County Court Augt Term 1860
The execution of the foregoing last will and Testament of J Proctor decd. was duly
proved in open Court according to Law.  see minutes

[Second Loose will in folder - "Nephew", dated 19 Jul 1860]

I Joseph Proctor of the County Orange and State of
North Carolina being of sound mind and memory
but considering the uncertainty of my earthly existence
do make and declare this my Last Will and testament
in manner and form following that is to say:-

First That my Executor (hereinafter named) Shall
provide for my body a decent burial suitable to
the wishes of my Relations and friends and pay all
funeral expences together with my just debts howsoever
and to whomso[ev]er oweing out of the first monies
that my come into his hands as a part or parcel
of my estate.

Item - I give and devise to my beloved wife two
hundred & twenty acres of Land and all my Stock
of Horses, cows, Hogs, House hold & Kitchen furniture
two wagons and all my farming tools to have and
to Hold to her the Said Susan Proctor for and during
the term of her natural Life.  After the death of [my]
wife Susan my will and desire is for all the
above named property that be on hand to be equally
divided between 5 of my daughters Nancey C
Copley, Susan Mc Duke, Martha J Proctor, Lucy
H Proctor & Vashtie Proctor

Item I give and devise to Elizabeth A. Mangum
one Dollar in Money

Item I give and devise to my son Richard M
Proctor one Dollar in Money.

And Lastly - I do hereby constitute and appoint
my trusty friend M. A. Angier my Lawful
Executor to all intents and purposes to Execute

[page 2]
This my last will and testament according to the
true intent and meaning of the same and every
part and clause thereof - hereby revoking and
declaring utterly void all other wills and testam-
ents by me heretofore made.

In witness whereof I the said Joseph Proctor
do hereunto set my hand and seal this 19th
day of July A D 1860.

Signed sealed published and declared by the said
Joseph Proctor to be his last will and testam-
ent in the presence of us who at His request
and in his presence do subscribe our names as
witnesses thereto.

Test                     Joseph Proctor (seal)
  Sterling Proctor   Jurat
  John Proctor

[Will Book Volume G, page 248]
I Joseph Proctor of the County - Orange
and State of North Carolina being of
sound Mind and Memory but considering
the uncertainty of my earthenly[sic] existence do make
and declare this my Last Will and testament
in manner and form following that is to Say
First That my Executor hereinafter named Shall
provide for my body a decent burial suita-
ble to the wishes of my relations and friends
and pay all funeral expences together with

[Will Book Volume G, page 249]
my Just debts howsoever and to whomsoever owing
out of the first monies that my come into his hands as a part
or parsel of my estate.

Item I give and devise to my beloved wife two hundred
& Twenty acres of Land and all my Stock of horses
Cows hogs, House hold & Kitchen furniture two
waggons and all my farming tools to have and
to hold to her the Said Susan Proctor for and
during the Term of her natural life. After the
death of - wife Susan my will and desire is
for all the above named property that be on
hand to be equally divided between 5 of my daughters
Nancy C Copley, Susan Mc Duke Martha J
Proctor, Lucy H Proctor Vashtie Proctor

Item I give and devise to Elizabeth A. Mangum one
dollar in money

Item I give and devise to my son Richard M Proctor
one dollar in money.

And Lastly I do hereby Constitute and appoint
my trusty friend M A Angier my Lawful Execu-
tor to all intents and purposes to execute this
my last will and testament according to the
true intent and meaning of the same and every
part and clause thereof - hereby revoking and
declaring utterly void all other wills and
testaments by me [heretofore] made.

In witness whereof I the said Joseph Proctor
do hereunto set my hand and seal this
19th day of July A D 1860

Signed sealed published and         }
declared by the said Joseph Proctor } Joseph Proctor (seal)
to be his last will and testament   }
in the presence of us who at his    }
request and in his presence do      }
subscribe our names as witnesses    }
thereto.

Test
Sterling Proctor
John Proctor

[Will Book Volume G, page 250]
The Execution of the foregoing last Will and
Testament of Joseph Proctor deceased is
duly proved by the oath of Sterling Proctor
one of the subscribing witnesses thereto and
ordered to be recorded whereupon M. A.
Angier the Executor therein named come
into to[sic] open Court and renounced his
right to Qualify

Whereupon Administration with the Will
annexed was granted to Major Green
See Minutes

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 243-244 (22 Jun 1860) Uncle
Recorded Aug 1860
Will Book Volume G, pages 248-250  (19 Jul 1860) Nephew
Recorded Nov 1860

There are two wills in the folder of loose wills, same testator's name, written about a month apart, and with the same executor.  They are uncle and nephew.

Will Written: 19 Jul 1860
Testator (b. 1806, d. 1860) s. of Richard Anthony Proctor III and Nancy Dollar, nephew of the other testator.
Major Green, Admr
Wife:  Susan (Roberts) Proctor
Daughter: Nancy Caroline Proctor (married Allen Copley)
Daughter: Susan Mangum Proctor (married James McCadden Duke)
Daughter: Martha J Proctor
Daughter: Lucy H Proctor  (married William A. Stagg)
Daughter: Vashti Proctor
Daughter: Elizabeth A Proctor (married William J. Mangum)
Son: Richard M. Proctor

Will Written: 22 Jun 1860
Testator (b. 1784, d. 1860) s. of Richard Anthony Proctor, Jr and Lucretia Mabry, uncle of the other testator.
M. A. Angier, Exr

wife: none listed.  Assume died prior to 1860.  Named Betsey.
Son: Joseph  (youngest son)
Daughter: Sally

Daughter: Nancy Proctor (married Thomas J Whitaker)
Son: William Proctor
Daughter: Patsey Proctor died before 1860 (married Edmond Browning)
Son: Anderson Proctor died before 1860
Daughter: Sally Proctor (married Jesse Cole)
Son: Joseph Proctor

Estate Papers comprise 29 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Proctor, Joseph (1860)".   M. A. Angier renounced executorship for one or both.  Major Green was appointed Administrator.

page 3 - Administrator Bond Major Green (nephew)
page 4-5 - Allotment of dower to Susan Proctor (nephew)
page 6-8 - Inventory 20 Dec 1860 (Major Green Admr, nephew)
page 9-12  - Inventory 20 Aug 1860 (M A Angier Exr, uncle)
page 13-14 - Petition for Dower by Susan Proctor Nov 1860 (nephew)
page 15-16 - Petition to Sell Real Estate Feb 1861 (Major Green Admr, nephew)
page 17-18 - Report of Sale of Real Estate May 1861 (Major Green Admr, nephew)
page 19-22 - Petition to Sell Real Estate Feb 1861 (Major Green Admr, nephew)
page 23-25 - Final Return Nov 1863 (M A Angier Exr, uncle)
page 26-29 - Account Current  Feb 1863 (Major Green Admr, nephew)

No family history found in these estate papers for either estate.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

