Will of David Carson - 20 Nov 1798

[Modern spellings, original punctuation and capitalization]

In the Name of God Amen

I David Carson being Sick and weak in body but
in perfect mind and memory and Calling
to mind the mortality of my body and
that it is appointed for all men once to
die: do make this my Last will and testament

first of all I resign my Soul to God that gave
it; and my body to the dust to be buried
in a decent Christian manner at the discretion
of my Executor nothing doubting but I will
receive it again at the resurrection; and as
touching such worldly goods as God hath
given me I will and dispose of them in
the following manner;

1 I give and bequeath unto my well beloved
Father James Carson all my Estate real and
Personal; only binding and Obliging
him to pay out of my said Estate one
hundred dollars to my beloved Son known
by the name of Ecklon Woods when he
arrives to the age of twenty one years and
if he should not Live to that age the sd hundred
dollars is to remain the property of the sd James
Carson; and I do appoint the said James Carson my
whole and sole Executor of this my last will and
Testament revoking disallowing and disannulling
all and Every other Testament Legacy by me made
rectifying[ratifying] this and no other to be my Last will
and Testament as witness my hand and Seal
this 30th day of Novr. and in the year one
Thousand Seven hundred and ninety Eight

Signed Sealed and pronounced
in the presence of
Robert A. Carson Jurat        David Carson (seal)
Moses Carson
                James Carson qualifd as Exr

[Will Book Volume C, page 127]
    In the Name of God Amen I David Carson being sick
and weak in Body but in perfect mind & memory & Calling
to mind the mortality of my Body and that it is
appointed for all men once to die. Do make this my Last Will &
Testament first of all I resign my soul to God that Gave it, and
my Body to the dust to be buried in a Decent Christian manner
at the discretion of my Executor nothing doubting but [I will receive it again] at the
Resurrection, and as touching such worldly goods as God hath
given me I Will and Dispose of them in the following manner

1. I give and Bequeath unto my well Beloved Father James
Carson all my Estate real & personal only binding & Obliging
him to pay out of my sd. Estate one Hundred Dollars to my Beloved
son known by the name of Ecklon Woods when he arrives
to the age of twenty one years, and if he should not Live to
that age the sd. Hundred Dollars is to remain the property of
the sd. James Carson's, and I do appoint the sd. James Carson my
whole & sole Executor of this my Last Will & Testament,
Revoking, Disallowing and Disannulling all & Every Other
Testament, Legacy by me made. Ratifying this & no Other
to be my Last Will & Testament as Witness my hand &
seal this thirtieth day of Novr. and in the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety Eight ~~~

Signed Sealed & pronounced               David Carson (seal)
in the presence of us
Robt. A. Carson
Moses Carson

                     Orange County February Term 1799
     The Execution of the foregoing Last Will & Testament of
David son deceased was duly proved in Open Court by the
Oath of Robt. A. Carson a subscribing Witness thereto and
Ordered to be Recorded ~~ at the same time James Carson
Executor therein named qualified accordingly ~~
                         Test

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume C, page 127
Recorded Feb 1799

No estate papers found.


Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

