Will of Philip Burrow, Sr - 13 Oct 1777

In the name of God amen I Philip Burrow Senr. of
the County of Dinwiddie being in perfect sense & memory
thanks be to almighty God for the same, and knowing that
it is appointed for all Men to die do make and ordain this to be
my last will and testament in manner and form following
that is to say.  Imprimis, I will that all my just debts
and funeral expenses be first paid & discharged --
Item, I give and bequeath unto my daughter Martha Cain
one negro by named Jiminy[?] son of Doll to her and her
heis forever.  Item I give and bequeath to my son Jerrald[?]
Burrow one negro boy Glasgow son of Doll to him & to his
heirs forever.  Item, I give and bequeath unto my
son Philip Burrow one negro boy Moses son of Doll to
him and to his heirs forever.  Item, I give & bequeath
unto my daughter Mary one negro boy Aaron son of Sue
to her and her heirs forever. Item I give & bequeath
unto my Son in law James Mangum fifty acres of land
whereon he now lives (be the same or less) and
bounded as followeth to wit, beginning at the reedy -
branch on Winfield's line; thence along my line to the
Country Road; thence along the said road to the corner
of my fence to a bottom; thence down the bottom to the
branch; thence up the branch to the beginning to him
and his heirs forever - I also give to my Said Son in law
James Mangum one negro boy named Lewis to him & to
his heirs forever. Item I give and bequeath to my
Son in law William Martin one negro girl named -
Chloe daughter of Doll and her increase to him
and to his heirs forever - also twenty five pounds cash
to be paid him by my Executors whom I shall hereafter
appoint - Item I give and bequeath unto my son
Gray Burrow two negroes Bob & Isaac to him & to his
heirs forever.  Item I lend unto my dear & Well beloved
wife Martha Burrow the use of the plantation & tract

[page 2]
of land whereon I now live containing three hundred and
nonety acres (be the same more or less) together with all my
household and kitchen furniture, stocks of all kinds -
during her life or widowhood and after her death
or marriage then I give the said land, household and
kitchen furniture, together with the stocks of all kinds
to my son Gray Burrow to him and to his heirs forever.
I also lend my said wife during ["during" x-out] her wife[life] or -
Widowhood two negroes Tony & Sue, and after her death
or marriage then I give the said negroes Tony & Sue to
my son Gray Burrow to him and to his heirs forever.
Item I lend unto my dear and well beloved wife during
her life three negroes Indian Sue, Doll & Phillis and their
increase, and after her death then I give the said wench
Phillis and her increase to be ["equally" x-out] to my son Gray
Burrow to him and his heirs forever. And the other two Sue
& Doll and their increase to be equally divided between
my children, to wit, Jerrald, Philip, Martha, Mary
and Gray and two sons in law James Mangum and William
Martin to them & to their heirs forever - My will and
desire is that there be neither Inventory nor appraise=
=ment of my estate. And lastly: I do nominate
and appoint my wife Martha Burrow, Executrix &
my son Gray Burrow executor to this my last will and
testament revoking all other wills by me formerly made

    In Witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand
& affixed my seal this thirteenth day of October, one
thousand Seven hundred & seventy seven
Signed, sealed, published and declared }
to be the last will and testament of   } Phl. Burrow (seal)
    Edward Wyatt, Gray Burrow
        John Dixon

    At Court held for Dinwiddie County in March
One thousand seven hundred and seventy eight

                                            The last
[page 3]
will and testament of Philip Burrow decd. was exhibited
into Court by Gray Burrow the Executor therein named and
Recorded by the oath of Henry Burrow one of the witnesses
thereto. And at another Court held for the said County in
the month of April following The Same was further
Recorded by the oaths of Edward Wyatt and John Dixon
the others witnesses thereto, and ordered to be recorded.
And on the motion of the said executor, who made
oath thereto according to Law, and having, together
with Edward Walker and John Dixon his securities -
entered into and acknowledged their bond in the -
penalty of ten thousand pounds, conditioned as the
law directs, certificate is granted him for obtaining
aprobal thereof in due form
                Teste J Nicholas CDClk

[additional info from Dinwiddie County not transcribed.]

Additional Comments:
Not found in Orange County or Dinwiddie County, VA will books.
Recorded Mar 1778

This is a copy, created by court clerk named John Nicholoas of Dinwiddie County, Virginia.

No estate papers found in Orange County, which is consistent with the provisions of the will regarding no inventory, etc.
                

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

