Will of Alfred Moore - 6 Jan 1837

In the name of God, Amen, I
Alfred Moore of the County of Orange
and State of North Carolina, do make
and ordain this my last will and testament
in manner and form following, That
is to say; I give devise, and bequeath to
my son-in-law Francis Nash, Waddell of
the State of Louisiana, the whole of the
estate of which I may die possessed
both real and personal, for the uses
and purposes herein after expressed
and declared. -

Imprimes - It is my Will, that the
whole of my Estate be Kept together, and
be undivided till my debts be paid, and
for two years after, in the possession, and,
under the sole direction and management
of my son-in-law Frances, Nash Waddell
aforesaid.  This, becomes an indispensably
necessary act, in consequence of the said Francis
having been for many years past, my sole
agent, and manger of my affairs; and since
circumstances made it necessary that my
active property should be removed to the
State of Louisiana, he has in the management
of that business, and in the purchase of Lands
in that state, and in the settlement of my acc=
ounts previously to leaving No. Carolina,
transferred almost the whole of my debts
to himself, and in his own name, and thereby
largely involved himself.  Justice, therefore
as well as common honesty, combine in
all the explanations and provisions which
will be contained in this my last will and
testament, relative to, and in favour of the

[page 2]
said Francis, N. Waddell -

Item, should my sister Sarah L. Moore
survive me, and choose to reside in North
Carolina, I devise to her my house and plantation
called Moorefields in the County of Orange
on which I now live, with all the furniture
stock, Negroes &c &c In a word just as it shall
stand at the time of my death; and, place
her in the attitude in which I stood while
living, as chief and absolute director and
proprietor for and during her natural
life, or so long as she shall remain single
and unmarried.  But, in this bequest I by
no means intend to turn my unmarried
daughters out of doors, or in the slightest
degree to injure them, on the contrary it is
my will, that while they remain single and
unmarried, they shall have an equal right
of residence in the house at Moorefields and
use of all its furniture and comforts, as is
given their Aunt, my said sister Sarah, and
also that their right shall equally extend
to the farm and its produce, and all other
benefits that may or shall result therefrom
My meaning in this bequest, is, simply that
my sister shall occupy my place as chief, and
things to exist after my death, as they did in my
lifetime, to live together in peace and affection
as one family, and on one common fund of
subsistence -

Item. When the period for the division of
my estate shall arrive, it is my will, that it
shall be at the option or discretion of my son-in-Law
Frances N. Waddell and Hugh Waddell, either to
divide my negroes share and share alike between
all and each of my children, or to retain and keep

[page 3]
to themselves the whole of my Negroes, and pay
in money to my daughters Augusta, Emma,
and Caroline, the full value of their respective
shares of said negroes had they been equally
divided among them.  The valuation must
be according to the rate negroes sell at when
the division takes place.

Item. I devise and bequeath the whole of my
Real Estate in fee simple to my sons-in-law
Frances N. Waddell and Hugh Waddell, they
paying nevertheless to my three daughters Augusta,
Emma, and Caroline, Three fifths of the
value of what would have been their res=
pective shares, had the said real estate
["had" x-out] been equally divided share and share
alike among all my Children - And as in=
convenience might arrise[sic] to the said Francis N.
Waddell and Hugh Waddell if compelled to pay
at once the value of said shares of real estate, and
thereby this devise become an evil, instead of a benefit
as is my intention, I therefore direct that the respective
shares of my daughters Augusta, Emma, and
Caroline; of and in my real Estate, be paid them
by the said Frances N Waddell and Hugh Waddell
in money, and in three equal annual pay=
ments or installments.

Item. I have directed my estate to be Kept together
for two years after my debts are paid, now, as
common justice requires that compensation be
made my said son-in-Law Francs N. Waddell
for his fidelity and unwearied labours in the
management of my affairs when ill health for
years prevented my managing them myself, and
thereby saved my family from ruin, it is my
will and intention, and I hereby direct and
declare, that after allowing to each of my daughters

[page 4]
what in his judgment ( and that judgment
shall not be controlled by anyone ) a sufficient and
reasonable annual sum during said two years
for their support, in conformity with their degree
and standing in life as my daughters; the whole
residue of the proceeds and profits of my estate
both real and personal which shall arise or ac=
crue, within and during said two years after
my debts are paid, shall be and remain to the
separate use, benefit and advantage of the
said Frances N. Waddell free and discharged
of all liability of account whatsoever -

Item. To prevent those odious hateful disagreem=
-ents in families which I have witnessed after
the death of the head thereof, I hereby declare
that the said Francis N. Waddell is not one
shilling in my debt, and should he happen to
be so at the time of my death, I hereby fully
discharge and acquit his of the same.  No
human being shall call him to account
after I am dead relative to his management
of or concern with my affairs. If anyone should
call him to account, I declare this a receipt in
full, and complete discharge to the said Frances
N. Waddell.   He is too just, generous and virtuous
a man to need any coercion of the law.

    Lastly.  I nominate, constitute and appoint
my said son-in-law Francis Nash Waddell
sole Executor of this my last Will and Testament
which is all written by my own hand and
dated this 6th day of January in the year of
our Lord 1837
                         Alfred Moore (seal)
                              of
                          Moorefields

[page 5]

The last will and Testament of Alfred Moore
found Among his valuable papers in his Locked
trunk by the Subscribers this 1 day of August
1837 & deposited with Edmd. Strudwick for
safe keeping                 John Kirkpatrick
                             E. Strudwick

[Will Book Volume E, page 503]
    In the name of God Amen I Alfred Moore
of the County of Orange and State of North Carolina do make
and ordain this my last Will and Testament in manner and form
following. That is to Say. I give devise and bequeath to my Son-in-law
Frances Nash Waddell of the State of Louisiana the whole of the
Estate of which I may die possessed both real and personal for
the uses and purposes herein after expressed and delivered ~~~

Imprimes ~~ It is my Will that the Whole of my Estate be Kept ~
together, and be [un]divided till my debts be paid and for two Years after
in the possession and under the Sole direction and management of my
son-in-law Frances Nash Waddell aforesaid. This becomes an
indispensably necessary Act in consequence of the said Francis having
been for many Years past, my sole agent and manger of my affairs
and since Circumstances made it necessary that my active property
should be removed to the State of Louisiana, he has in the manage
=ment of that business and in the purchase of Lands in that State, and
in the settlement of my Accounts previously to leaving No.Carolina
transferred almost the whole of my debts to himself and in his own
name and thereby largely involved himself. Justice therefore as well
as common honesty combine in all the explanations and provisions which
will be contained in this my last Will and Testament relative to
and in favour of the said Francis N Waddell ~~~~~~~~

Item) Should my Sister Sarah L Moore survive me and choose to
reside in North Carolina I devise to her my house and plantation
called Moorefields in the County of Orange on Which I now live
with all the furniture Stock, Negroes &C &C In a word Just as it shall
stand at the time of my death and, place her in the attitude in which
I stood while living, as chief and absolute director and proprietor
for and during her natural life or so long as she shall remain
Single and unmarried, But in this bequest I by no means intend
to turn my unmarried Daughters out of doors or in the Slightest degree
to injure them, on the contrary it is my Will that while they remain
Single and unmarried they shall have an equal right of residence

[Will Book Volume E, page 504]
in the house at Moorefields and use of all its furniture and
comforts as is given their Aunt, my said Sister Sarah, and
also that their right Shall equally extend to the farm and its
produce, and all other benefits that may or Shall result therefrom
My meaning in this bequest is Simply that my Sister Shall
occupy my place as chief, and things to exist after my death
as they did in my lifetime, to live together in peace & affection
as one family, and on one common fund of Subsistence ~~~

Item. When the period for the division of my Estate Shall arrive
it is my Will that it Shall be at the option or discretion of my
son-in-Law Frances N Waddell and Hugh Waddell either to
divide my Negroes Share and Share alike between all and each
of my Children or to retain and Keep to themselves the Whole of
my Negroes, and pay in money to my daughters Augusta, Emma,
and Caroline, X [indicating that the inserted text goes here]

[this on an inserted piece of paper]
the full value of their respective shares of said
Negroes had they been equally divided among
them. The valuation must be according to
the rate negroes sell at when the division takes
place. Item. I devise and bequeath the whole
of my Real Estate in fee simple to my son[s]-in-law
Frances N Waddell and Hugh Waddell they
paying nevertheless to my three daughters Augusta
Emma and Caroline Three fifths of the value
of what would have been there[sic] respective
shares, had the said real estate been equally
divided Share and Share alike among all
My Children And as inconvenience might arise
to the said Francis N Waddell and Hugh Waddle[sic]
if compelled to pay at Once the Value of Said
Shares of real estate, and thereby this devise
become an evil instead of a benefit as is
my intention. I therefore direct that the
respective Shares of my daughters Augusta
Emma & Caroline;
[end of inserted piece of paper, continuing on from the "X" above]

              of and in my real Estate, be paid them by the said
Frances N Waddell and Hugh Waddell in money, and in three
equal annual payments or installments ~~~

Item I have directed my estate to be Kept together for two years
after my debts are paid now as common Justice requires that
Compensation be made my said Son-in-Law Francs N Waddell
for his fidelity and unwearied labours in the management of
my affairs when ill health for years prevented my managing
them my Self and thereby Saved my family from ruin it is
my Will and intention and I hereby direct and declare that after
allowing to each of my daughters what in his Judgment (and
that Judgment) Shall not be controlled by anyone) a Sufficient
and reasonable annual Sum during said two years for their support
in conformity with their degree and standing in life as my
daughters; the whole residue of the proceeds and profits of my
estate both real and personal which shall arise or accrue within
and during said two years after my debts are paid, Shall be and
remain to the Seperate[sic] use benefit and advantage of the said Frances
N Waddell free and discharged of all liability of account whatsoever

Item. To prevent those odious hateful disagreements in families which
I have witnessed after the death of the head thereof, I hereby declare
that the said Francis N Waddell is not one Shilling in my debt
and Should he happen to be so at the time of my death I hereby
fully discharge and acquit his of the same. No human being
shall call him to account after I am dead relative to his management
of or concern with my affairs. If any one should call him to
account, I declare this a receipt in full and complete discharge
to the said Frances N Waddell He is too Just generous and virtuous

[Will Book Volume E, page 505]
a man to need any coercion of the law.

Lastly. I nominate constitute and appoint my said Son-in-law
Francis Nash Waddell sole Executor of this my last Will and
Testament which is all Written by my own hand and dateed[sic]
this 6th day of January in the year of our Lord 1837

                                    Alfred Moore (seal)
                                           Moorefields

                         Orange County August Term 1837 ~~

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume E, pages 503-505
Recorded Aug 1837

Pages in this section of this part of Will Book Volume E are not sequential.

The left margin of several of the pages of the loose will was obscured with conservator's tape.  When the words that were thus hidden are not obvious, or are ambiguous, those words were verified with the will book copy.

This testator is not the same Alfred Moore who served as the NC State Attorney General and was a founder of UNC Chapel Hill, but rather his son who served as Speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives.

The house called "Moorefields" is still standing and is located at
2201 Morefields Road, Hillsborough NC.  See https://openorangenc.org/buildings/moorefields

The testator and his sister are buried in Moore-Waddell Graveyard at Moorefields

Moore, Alfred (b. 1782 - d. 1837) Son of Justice Alfred Moore
Moore, Sarah Louisa (b. 14 Oct 1795 - d. 26 Apr 1888) Daughter of Justice Alfred Moore
Waddell, Francis Nash (b. 17 Jul 1786 - d. 1 May 1881) (Son of John Waddell and Sarah Nash)

Estate Papers comprise 48 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Moore, Alfred (1841)".  The only inventory found here was taken by Sheriff James C. Turrentine includes the line "Also a negro woman named Milly." It is unclear when this inventory was taken, however, this sheriff served from 1833 to 1852.  It is also unclear why the sheriff would take this inventory.  At the time of the inventory, many of the items of furniture, etc., are described as "fine", however livestock is almost absent. Most of the remainder of these papers are court summons.



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

