Will of Stephen Taylor - 26 Oct 1860

    In the Name of God Amen: I Stephen
Taylor of the County of Orange and State
of North Carolina being of sound mind
and memory but considering the uncertainty
of my earthly existence do make and declare
this my last Will and Testament in manner
and form following:

    First. That my Executors[sic] hereinafter named
shall provide for my body a decent burial
suitable to the wishes of my relations and
friends and pay all funeral expenses together
will all my just debts howsoever and to
whomsoever oweing[sic] out of the monies that may
first come into his hands as a part and parcel
of my estate. ---

    Secondly I give and bequeath to my Grand
son Stephen F. Forrest in addition to what I
have already given him one negro Man named
Granville and one negro Woman named Lina

Thirdly I give and bequeath to my Grand-Son
John P. Forrest in addition to the Land and
other property I have heretofore given him the
sum of one Dollar and my Executor is hereby
directed to pay over to him that amount and
no more.

Fourthly I give and devise to my Grand-Daughter
Eliza Ann Jones wife of Thomas J. Jones in addition
to the tract of Land I have already given her the
following property To Wit A part of my Guilson

[page 2]
tract of Land Beginning on C. C. Tinnins Corner
and running north up the Great Road to or above
the bares to a point opposite the line of Jno P.
Forrest 10 acre lot thence East to the 10 acres lot
then south to a Rock in the field thence East
across the fence three Rods into the Woods thence
south to a point opposite Jno P. Forrest East and
West fince thence west with the fence to the first
Station Containing by estimation forty five acres
more or less Also Fifty acres of Land lying north
of ["the Great Road" x-out] the above mentioned 45 acres
and between ["the Great Road" x-out]my home place and John Forrests
line. Beginning at the Gate on the Road and running
North to Stephen Forrests line thence East to John
Forrests line and with the same to the first station
also three negroes named Phillis, Milly Christmas
and Frances & their future increase also Two Cows and
Calves.

Fifthly I give and devise to my Grand Daughter Selina
Wilkerson wife of Elbridge Wilkerson in addition to
what I have already given her one negro woman
["and her" x-out] named Jennie and her two children
Lucy and Caroline.

Sixthly I give and devise to my Grand Son James
A. Forrest in addition to what I have already given him
the sum of one hundred Dollars over and above
his distributive share in the residue of my estate

Seventhly.  I give and devise to my Great Grand
Daughter Mary Ellen Forrest the Bed and furniture
now standing and usually Kept up stairs in
the little Room.

[page 3]
Eightly - I give and devise to my Great Grand
son Stephen T. Forrest Jr. the plantation whereon
I now live Known as the home or mansion tract
including the Barn lot also a part of the Guilson
tract lying on the East side of said home tract
and adjoining S. W Hughes beginning at the North
East Corner of Said Hughes tract running thence
West Fourteen Rods along and with John Forrests
line to a stake thence north to John Forrests upper
line to a Stake thence east Fourteen Rods to a point
on the line of my Said home tract containing
sixty acres more or less also the balance of the
Elijah Ellis tract of Land near Cedar Grove not disposed
of Containing thirty two acres more or less also one
other tract being a part of the Guilson tract containing
about 50 acres bounded on the North by Mrs Nancy
Tinnin on the West by Eliza Ann Jones 50 acres and on the South
by Jno P. Forrest - One negro boy named Dan[Dave?], one
negro boy named Sam and one negro girl named
Bettie.  My wagon & gear & all my horses three
Plows all my cows Hogs sheep Household and
Kitchen furniture and farming tools and all
the Crop that I may have on hand at my death
either gathered or growing. ---

And lastly I do hereby Constitute and appoint
my Grand Son Stephen T. Forrest my Lawful
Executor to all intents and purposes to execute
this my last Will and Testament according
to the true intent and meaning thereof and
every part and clause thereof hereby revoking

[page 4]
and declaring utterly void all other wills
and Testaments by me heretofore made

    In Witness whereof I the said Stephen Taylor
do hereunto set my hand & seal this the 26th day
of October 1860

Signed sealed & declared       }          his
in the presence of us          }  Stephen (+) Taylor
who at his request and         }         mark
in his presence do subscribe   }
our names as Witnesses thereto }
N D Bain
Nathl Bain  Jurat

[Will Book Volume G, page 394]
        In the Name of God Amen

    I Stephen Taylor of the County of Orange and State of
North Carolina being of sound mind and memory but
considering the uncertainty of my earthly existence do
make and declare this my last Will and Testament in
manner and form following:

First. That my Executors[sic] hereinafter named shall provide for
my body a decent burial suitable to the wishes of my
relations and friends and pay all funeral expenses
together will all my just debts howsoever and to whom=
soever owing out of the monies that may first come
into his hands as a part and parcel of my estate.

Secondly I give and bequeath to my grand Son Stephen F. Forrest
in addition to what I have already given him one negro
man named Granville and one negro woman named
Lena

Thirdly I give and bequeath to my grand Son John P. Forrest
in addition to the Land and other property I have heretofore
given him the Sum of one dollar and my Executor is
hereby directed to pay over to him that amount and no
more

Fourthly I give and devise to my grand daughter Eliza Ann
Jones wife of Thomas J. Jones in addition to the tract of
Land I have already given her the following property
To Wit. A part of my Guilson tract of Land Beginning
on C. C. Tinnins corner and running north up the great
road to or above the bars to a point opposite the line of Jno P Forrests
10 acre lot then East to the 10 acres lot then south to a
Rock in the field thence East across the fence three Rods
into the Woods thence south to a point opposite Jno P.
Forrest East and West fence thence west with the fence to the
first Station containing by estimation forty five acres
more or less Also fifty acres of Land lying north of the
above mentioned 45 acres and between my home place and
John Forrests line. Beginning at the Gate on the road
and running north to Stephen Forrests line thence East to
John Forrests line and with the same to the first station
also Three negroes named Phillis, Milly Christmas and

[Will Book Volume G, page 395]
Frances & their future increase also Two Cows and Calves

Fifthly I give and devise to my Grand daughter Selina Wilkerson
wife of Elbridge Wilkerson in addition to what I have already
given her one negro woman named Jennie and her two
children Lucy and Caroline.

Sixthly I give and devise to my Grand Son James A. Forrest
in addition to what I have already given him the Sum
of one hundred dollars over and above his distributive
share in the residue of my estate

Seventhly. I give and devise to my great grand daughter Mary
Ellen Forrest the Bed and Furniture now standing
and usually kept up stairs in the little Room.

Eightly I give and devise to my great grand Son Stephen T. Forrest
Jr. the Plantation whereon I now live known as the home
or mansion tract including The Barn lot also a part of
The Guilson Tract lying on the East Side of said home
Tract and adjoining S. W. Hughes beginning at the North
East corner of said Hughes tract running thence West
fourteen rods along and with John Forrest line to a stake
thence north to John Forrests upper line to a Stake thence
east fourteen rods to a point on the line of my Said
home tract containing sixty acres more or less also
the balance of the Elijah Ellis tract of land near Cedar
Grove not disposed of containing thirty two acres more
or less also one other tract being a part of the Guilson tract
containing about 50 acres bounded on the North by Mrs
Nancy Tinnin on the West by Eliza Ann Jones 50 acres
and on the South by John P. Forrest one negro boy named
Dave[Dan?] one negro boy name[d] Sam and one negro girl
named Bettie my waggon & gear & all my horses three plows
all my cows Hogs sheep Household and kitchen furniture
and farming tools and all the crop that I may have on
hand at my death either gathered or growing

And lastly I do hereby constitute and appoint my grand
son Stephen T. Forrest my lawful Executor
to all intents and purposes to execute this my last
Will and Testament according to the true intent
and meaning thereof and every part and clause

[Will Book Volume G, page 396]
thereof hereby revoking and declaring utterly
void all other wills and Testaments by me heretofore
made

    In Witness whereof I the said Stephen Taylor do here=
unto set my hand & seal this the 26th day of October
1860

Signed sealed & declared in the
presence of us who at his request           his
and in his presence do subscribe    Stephen (+) Taylor
our names as Witnesses thereto              mark

N D Bain
Nathaniel Bain Jurat

Orange County Court August Term 1862
["The foregoing last Will and Testament of" x-out]
    For probate See minutes

[Estate Papers - Return on Estate Feb 1863]

           Feb Term 1863

Return of the Estate of Stephen Taylor, decd.
                  Stephen T. Forrest } Exr
    Amt recd from Guardian $479.80

Negro Hire 1863 due Jan  1864
Boy Granville S. P. Moore    $80.80
 "  David  "     "            85.00
 "  Samuel "    "    "        50.00
Woman Jenny   J.E. Wilkenson  25.00
Girl Bettie   S. P Moore      30.00
 "   Millie   D. W. Thompson  40.00
 "   Salina   S. P. Moore      7.50
 "   Celia    J. P. Forrest   42.00
                            _______________
                                    $359.50
               Amt $39.30           $839.30

Liney and Frank too small to hire
put for their victual & clothes

The Lands rented out for one
third of the crop.  The crop of 1862 3 1/2 Bbls
Corn 24 Bushels wheat 4 stacks hay &
3 of oats

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, pages 394-396
Recorded Aug 1862

Estate Papers comprise seven pages and are found in a folder labeled "Taylor, Stephen (1862)".



Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

