Will of Osmond F Long - 24 Feb 1851

I Osmond F. Long of the Town of Hillsborough
State of North Carolina being of Sound mind
and memory but considering the uncertainty of
my earthly existence do make and declare this my
last will and testament in manner & form following
that is to say.

First That my executors shall provide for my body a
decent burial Suitable to the wishes of my relations and friends
& pay all funeral expenses together with my debts.

Second - As it will be necessary to dispose of my interest
in the Store of Long & Webb to raise funds for the payment
of my debts I hereby authorize my executors to dispose of
my interest in the stock of goods on hand at the time
of my death to my partner or to any persons who may be
acceptable to my partner deducting 5 per cent on New
York Cost & if that is not sufficient to pay my
I hereby authorize my executors either to sell any part
of my real estate or negroes which they and my wife may
deem most advisable.

Thirdly - I give and devise to my beloved wife Frances
Hellen Long all the residue of my estate after paying
my Just debts to have and to hold during her natural
life or widowhood, should she marry again it is my
Will and desire that my estate be divided as follows, one
third to my beloved wife & the other two thirds to be
equally divided among my children, Should my
wife not marry again it is my will and desire that
at her decease my estate be at her disposal by will or
otherwise. Lastly I do hereby constitute and appoint-

[page 2]
my trusty friends James Webb Jr. & Thomas Webb my
lawful executors to all intents and purpose to execute
this my last will and testament according to he true
intent and meaning of the same & every part & clause
thereof.  In witness whereof I the said Osmond F
Long do hereunto set my hand and seal this 24th
day of February A.D. 1851

Signed sealed published and declared by the
Said Osmond F. Long to be his last will and testa-
ment in presence of us who at his request and in his presence
do subscribe our names as witnesses thereunto
John H. Webb
Key Whitted     O. F. Long (seal)

Orange County Court Augt Term 1864
The foregoing last will and testament of O. F. Long
decd. was duly proved in Open Court According
to law & ordered to be recorded

State of North Carolina
I George Laws Clerk of Orange County Court
of Pleas and Quarter Session do hereby certify that
the foregoing is a true and perfect copy of the last
Will and Testament of O. F. Long decd, taken from
the record on file in my office

In Testimony whereof I have hereunto set my
hand at office in Hillsborough this
29th day of May 1866
                        Geo. Laws CCC

[Will Book Volume G, page 458]
I Osmond F Long of the Town of Hillsborough State
of North Carolina being of Sound mind and memory, but
considering the uncertainty of my earthly existence do
make and declare this my last will and testament in
manner & form following that is to say

First That my executors shall provide for my body a decent burial
suitable to the wishes of my relations & friends & pay all funeral
expenses together with my debts.

Second as it will be necessary to dispose of my interest in the store
of Long & Webb to raise funds for the payment of my debts I hereby
authorize my executors to dispose of my interest in the stock
of goods on hand at the time of my death to my partner or to any
persons who may be acceptable to my partner deducting 5 per cent on
New York Cost & if that is not sufficient to pay my I hereby
authorize my executors either to sell any part of my real estate
or negroes which they & my wife may deem most advisable

Thirdly I give and devise to my beloved wife Frances Helin Long all
the residue of my estate after paying my just debts to have
and to hold during her natural life or widowhood, should she marry
again it is my Will and desire that my estate be divided as follows
one third to my beloved wife & the other two thirds to be equally divided
among my children. Should my wife not marry again it is my
will and desire that at her decease my estate be at her disposal by Will
or otherwise. Lastly I do hereby constitute and appoint my
trusty friends James Webb Jr & Thomas Webb my lawful executors to all
intents and purpose to execute this my last will and testament according
to he true intent and meaning of the same & every part and clause thereof

In witness whereof I the said Osmond F Long do hereunto set my
hand and seal this 24th day of February AD 1851

Signed sealed published and declared by the said Osmond F. Long
to be his last will and testament in presence of us who at
his request and in his presence do subscribe our names as
witnesses thereunto
John H. Webb                    O. F. Long (seal)
Key Whitted

    Orange County Court Augt Term 1864
The foregoing last will and testament of O. F. Long decd. was duely
Recorded in Open Court according to law & ordered to be recorded

Additional Comments:
Will Book Volume G, page 458
Recorded Nov 1864

Estate Papers comprise 36 pages and are found in a folder labeled "Long, Osmond F (1864)".

[Estate Papers - Petition to Assign Dower May 1866]
State of North Carolina }    County Court
Orange County           }    May Term 1866

    To the Justices of Orange County Court

The petition Frances Helen Long, & her children
Helen C. Long, Margaret T. Long, William S. Long
Anne S. Long Elizabeth Long, Frances Long and
Thomas W Long, the last four of whom are minors

    ["Respectfully showeth unto" x-out] and sue in
this behalf by James Webb their uncle and
next friend:

    Respectfully showeth unto your worships,
you petitioners of the County of Orange, that Os=
mond F Long late of Orange County died in July
1864 leaving a last will and testament properly
executed to pass both his real and personal estate
which was duly admitted to probate at August
Term 1894 of Orange County Court, ["and by" x-out]
and leaving him surviving your petitioner Fran=
ces Helen Long his widow and the other petitioners,
his children and heirs at law; And by said will
he devised & bequeathed all his property to your petitioner Frances
Helen during her life or widowhood with power at
her death to dispose of the same to his said children
by deed or will equally to be divided among them,
all of which will more fully appear by reference
to said will a copy of which accompanies this
petition as a part thereof.  The said Long was seized
and possessed of a tract of land lying in Catterpil=
lar Creek in Orange County adjoining the heirs of
William J Bingham deceased, H.M.C. Strowd, Jesse

[page 2]
Morrow & others & containing sixty acres be the same
more or less, and one other Tract lying in Alamance
County in the waters of Haw River adjoining William
Morrow and others and containing 100 acres more
or less.  You petitioners further show that said estate has
not be settled up and that your petitioner Frances
Helen has at this term of the Court desented? from
from[sic] said will in the mode prescribed by law,
and as owing to the loss of tall the slave property
belonging to the estate and the consequent unexpected
burden upon the real estate of the payment of debts,
it is necessary for her, said petitioners, to have dower
assigned to her in said real estate:

    Your petitioners therefore pray that a writ
of dower may issue according to law to have
dower assigned to your petitioner Frances Helen
in said lands.
                              Norwood & Webb
                              Attos.

This petition coming on to be heard upon the petition
and the Court being satisfied of the truth of the matters
set forth therein, it is considered and adjudged by the
Court that writ of Dower issue to the sheriff of Orange
to assign dower to the petitioner Helen Frances in the lands
mentioned in this petition according to law, and re=
port to the next Court.

Transcribed by Ben Franklin <ben.franklin.ffru@gmail.com> May 2024

